BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-601 
27 APRIL 2021 
Operations 
OPERATIONAL CAPABILITY 
REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENTATION 
AND VALIDATION 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A5RP 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI10-601,  
                        6 November 2013 
Certified by: AF/A5R  
(Maj Gen Dawn M. Dunlop) 
Pages: 12 
 
 
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capabilities Requirements 
Development, and supports implementation of the policies and procedures described in Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 5123.01H, Charter for the Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council (JROC) and Implementation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and 
Development System (JCIDS), and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive 
Acquisition Framework.  This publication establishes the guidelines for the Air Force process 
managed by the Directorate of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R) for documentation 
and validation of operational capability requirements under the authority described in 
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive (MD) 1-7, Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategy, 
Integration and Requirements. The guidance provided in this instruction applies to all personnel, 
including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, who develop, review or approve operational 
capability requirements documents as governed by this instruction, whether such programs are 
designated as unclassified, collateral, compartmented, or special access.  This publication does not 
apply to the United States Space Force.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in 
this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance 
statement.  See DAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the 
authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of 
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the requestor’s 
commander for non-tiered compliance items.  This instruction may be supplemented at the Major 
Command (MAJCOM) (or equivalent) level, but all supplements must be routed to AF/A5RP for 
coordination before certification and approval. Submit recommended changes using the AF Form 
2 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the 
appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Instruction 33-322, 
Records Management and Information Governance Program, and disposed of in accordance with 
Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. It incorporates 
changes necessary to provide updated guidance for development and approval of requirements 
documents within the Air Force that align with current guidelines of the Joint Capabilities 
Integration and Development System  and the Adaptive Acquisition Framework. 
 
 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
3 
Section 1A— Overview 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Purpose.  The AF/A5R operational capability requirements documentation and 
validation process provides approved requirements documents to facilitate timely 
implementation of solutions to address identified deficiencies associated with validated 
capability requirements (mission needs) or to otherwise take advantage of opportunities to 
improve operational mission effectiveness. 
1.2.  Scope.  Under the authority described in HAF Mission Directive 1-7, AF/A5R is 
responsible for matters pertaining to the development and documentation of operational 
capability requirements. Organizations wishing to utilize the documents or processes governed 
by this instruction must adhere to the AF/A5R guidance and oversight as outlined herein. 
Detailed process maps and specific guidance on the various operational capability 
requirements documents and processes are captured in a series of AF/A5R Guidebooks which 
are maintained by AF/A5RP and available on the AF Portal (www.my.af.mil); navigate to 
“Organization A to Z”, then enter the keyword “A5RP.” 
1.3.  Guidelines. 
1.3.1.  All Air Force organizations will: 
1.3.1.1.  In accordance with Public Law 109-364 Sec. 801, ensure only fully trained 
and appropriately certified requirements managers are assigned responsibility for the 
development of operational capability requirements and associated documentation 
governed by this instruction. 
1.3.1.2.  Use HAF approved Capabilities Based Assessments, or equivalent 
studies/analysis, to inform decisions regarding solution pathway selection and 
development of associated operational capability requirements documents. 
1.3.1.3.  Ensure full consideration of non-materiel solution approaches and existing 
solutions, including those in use or in development by other Services and components, 
before pursuing new capability solutions via the requirements processes governed by 
this instruction. 
1.3.1.4.  Verify that proposed solution pathways align with need date and available 
resources. 
1.3.1.5.  Perform feasibility analysis to ensure proposed solution approaches are 
technically achievable and executable with respect to cost targets and 
fielding/deployment timelines. 
1.3.1.6.  Perform cost-capability analysis to ensure proposed solutions and system 
attributes are affordable with respect to expected future budget, resourcing and 
investment strategies. 
4 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
Section 2A—Headquarters Air Force (HAF) level Requirements Oversight 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
2.1.  Authority.  The Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) is designated as the Chief 
Requirements Officer for the AF. The oversight for the AF capability development and 
requirements processes and procedures has been further delegated through the Deputy Chief 
of Staff, Strategy, Integration and Requirements to the Director of Operational Capability 
Requirements (AF/A5R). The AF/A5RP Division Chief is the process owner and AF waiver 
authority for the requirements activities covered by this instruction. 
2.2.  HAF Subject Matter Expert (SME).  AF/A5R provides subject matter expertise on 
operational capability requirements to support HAF-level review and decision making. When 
a subject matter expert does not reside within AF/A5R, the designated AF/A5R division works 
with the appropriate stakeholder organization to identify a HAF SME for the topic. The SME 
facilitates communication between the Sponsor and the various HAF and Joint requirements 
process owners and stakeholders and assists in providing prep sessions for senior leaders prior 
to decision meetings and other forums. The designated AF/A5R division provides SME 
endorsement as part of the HAF-level review. 
2.3.  AF Gatekeeper (AFGK).  The AF/A5RP Division Chief serves as the AFGK. The 
gatekeeping function serves as the entry point for HAF-level review of proposed solution 
pathways and approval to begin development of associated requirements documents. The 
AFGK is the single AF point of entry into the Joint Staff for the JCIDS process. AF/A5RP 
conducts AFGK reviews at various points in the process in conjunction with appropriate 
AF/A5R division(s), HAF SME(s) and other designated key stakeholders, to assess a Sponsor’s 
readiness to begin or continue progression through the operational capability requirements 
document development and validation process. 
2.4.  AF Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC).  The AFROC consists of AF 
operational capability requirements stakeholders and organizations tasked to review and make 
recommendations on AF-sponsored requirements documents as part of document validation 
and approval. The AF/A5R Director serves as the AFROC Chair and, as such, exercises 
decision authority regarding recommendations made during AFROC review. 
2.5.  Air Force Requirements Decision Authority (RDA).  Pursuant to Title 10 U.S.C. 
Section 2547, Acquisition Related Functions of Chiefs of the Armed Forces, the Chief of Staff 
of the Air Force is the AF decision authority for requirements documents associated with any 
program designated as a Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP). Unless otherwise 
specified, the AF decision authority for all other requirements documents is assigned to an 
appropriate AF RDA, as designated by AF/A5R. 
Section 3A—Joint Requirements Oversight 
3.  Functional Capability Boards (FCBs).  The FCBs are the first level of joint oversight. They 
advise the Joint Capabilities Board (JCB) and Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) on 
issues within their Joint Capability Area portfolio(s). FCBs are O-6 level forums chaired by a Joint 
Staff General Officer (GO) or Flag Officer (FO), or civilian equivalent. AF/A5R designates an AF 
FCB Lead and Action Officer(s) for each Functional Capability Board to ensure AF interests are 
represented in the Joint process. 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
5 
3.1.  Joint Integration Forums.  The Joint Staff’s Force Structure, Resources, and 
Assessment Directorate (Joint Staff J-8) leads O-6-level and GO/FO-level integration meetings 
for deliberation of cross-cutting JCIDS issues. The AF/A5RP Division Chief is designated as 
the AF representative to the Joint Integration Forums and oversees the activities of the Air 
Force FCB Leads and Action Officers on behalf of AF/A5R. 
3.2.  Joint Capabilities Board (JCB).  The JCB is one level above the Functional Capability 
Boards and advises the JROC on issues across the capability portfolios. The JCB is a 1-star/2-
star level forum chaired by the Director, Joint Staff J-8. The AF/A5R Director is designated as 
the AF Principal to the JCB. 
3.3.  Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC).  The JROC is the highest level of joint 
oversight and the JCIDS process owner. The JROC is a 4-star level forum chaired by the Vice 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. The Vice CSAF is designated as the AF Principal to the JROC. 
AF/A5R exercises VCSAF authority to task responsible organizations within the HAF, 
MAJCOMs, and Agencies to review and staff JCIDS requirement documents, Comment 
Resolution Matrices (CRM), and responses to JROC memorandum directed taskings. 
3.4.  Cyber Requirements Evaluation Board (CREB).  US Cyber Command has been given 
authority for Cyberspace Operations capabilities and associated document validation. The 
Director, AF/A5R is the AF representative to the CREB. The HAF lead is the AF/A5R Cyber 
Division (AF/A5RK). 
3.5.  Special Operations Command Requirements Evaluation Board (SOCREB).  US 
Special Operations Command has been given authority for Special Operations capabilities and 
associated document validation. AF Special Operations Command (AFSOC) is the AF 
representative to the SOCREB. The HAF Lead is AF/A3. 
Section 4A—Additional Oversight 
4.  AF Capability Development Council.  The AF capability development governance bodies 
(Working Group and Council) serve to prioritize, integrate, and verify new and ongoing capability 
development efforts across the enterprise. These forums ensure key strategic questions related to 
capability development have AF senior leadership direction. For more detail, refer to the Charter 
for the Air Force Capability Development Council, available on the AFWIC Capability 
Development SharePoint site. 
4.1.  Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Cost Assessment & Program Evaluation 
(CAPE).  The Director, CAPE, has oversight authority for analysis documentation and cost 
estimating associated with defense acquisition programs. For AF programs or studies where 
CAPE elects not to provide oversight, the AF Capability Development Council provides 
oversight of AF-sponsored studies and analysis documentation. 
4.2.  Acquisition Decision Authority.  This is the designated individual who has overall 
responsibility for an acquisition program. The individual has authority to approve the 
acquisition strategy consistent with the chosen acquisition pathway and for entry of an 
acquisition program into the next phase of the acquisition process. The acquisition decision 
authority is accountable for associated cost, schedule, and performance reporting to higher 
authority, including congressional reporting. Acquisition policies are governed by appropriate 
DoD 5000-series instructions, as implemented by Air Force 63-series publications. 
6 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
Section 5A—Requirements Sponsor Responsibilities 
5.  Sponsorship.  Requirements sponsorship is assigned to a MAJCOM/Agency or HAF 
Organization to lead development of capability requirements and associated documentation for 
assigned systems, programs, functions and/or missions. Sponsorship includes, but is not limited 
to, advocating for resourcing, manpower, and other support necessary for the conduct of 
requirements development activities, consistent with the following guidance: 
5.1.  Utilize recommended guidelines for requirements document development as described in 
the AF/A5R Requirements Development Guidebooks and coordinate with AF/A5RP for 
tailoring or exceptions/exemptions. 
5.2.  For JCIDS documents and related studies, sponsors will ensure document development 
team lead, document point-of-contact and/or study lead is trained and certified, in accordance 
with the JCIDS Requirements Manager Certification Training guidelines. (T-0) 
5.3.  Ensure proper development and documentation of Concept of Operations (CONOPs) 
(including Operational Mission Profile/Mode Summary as described in the JCIDS Manual), 
applicable DoD Architecture Framework (DoDAF) products, and concepts relevant to the 
mission context and required to support capability requirements analysis, acquisition, test, 
operations and sustainment. 
5.4.  Conduct studies and analyses with direct assistance from the AF/A5R Office of 
Aerospace Studies. Utilize approved risk assessments when conducting capability gap 
analysis. Provide risk assessment data in support of HAF-level decision bodies, and others as 
required. 
5.5.  Maintain close coordination with the acquisition program office to ensure capability 
requirements and system-level attributes remain affordable, feasible, testable/measurable, 
supportable and sustainable with respect to available resourcing, time and technology. Conduct 
analysis to inform cost-capability tradeoffs and provide results to HAF-level capability 
development, requirements and acquisition forums. 
5.6.  Ensure key systems engineering considerations, as identified by the acquisition program 
office, program manager, Program Executive Officer or Milestone Decision Authority 
(including, but not limited to operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness; environmental, 
safety, and occupational health; human systems integration, including incorporation of the 
most current anthropomorphic standards/accommodation data for the US recruitment 
population as maintained by Air Force Life Cycle Management Center’s office of Human 
Factors Engineering, Survivability, and Habitability; maintenance and sustainment 
engineering; product and system integrity; and software engineering) are appropriately 
addressed in the associated capability requirements documents. 
5.7.  For intelligence-sensitive capabilities, intelligence representatives from the sponsor 
organization are responsible for obtaining (or injecting) the future threat environment and 
accounting for the necessary intelligence support, data dependencies, and infrastructure for the 
capability to be fully fielded, supported and sustained. 
 
 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
7 
5.8.  Consult with appropriate AF/A5R Division(s) and AF/A5RP FCB Lead(s) before 
interacting with representatives from other services, components, or outside agencies on 
operational capability requirements matters – in particular, for interactions involving the Joint 
Staff, or OSD. Obtain AF/A5R Division Chief-level approval (as a minimum) prior to 
submitting any presentation(s) for review or decision. 
Section 6A—Key Stakeholder Responsibilities and Authorities 
6.  Requirements Process Stakeholders.  Responsibilities for organizations and individuals 
participating in the AF operational capability requirements development process are summarized 
below in Table 1 This list is not exhaustive; other organizations not specified in this instruction 
may be called on to provide expertise, as needed, to assist in the requirements process. AF/A5RP 
maintains an updated list of stakeholders and roles, in the AF/A5R Guidebook, Volume 1. 
Table 1.  Summary of Key Requirements Process Stakeholders. 
Office 
Symbol 
Functional Area of Responsibility 
SAF/AQ 
Oversees implementation of the Agile Acquisition Framework policies and procedures: OPR 
is SAF/AQX (Acquisition Integration) 
SME for Development Planning, Experimentation, and Engineering: OPR is SAF/AQR 
(Science, Technology, and Engineering) 
Co-Secretariat of the Capability Development Council: OPR is SAF/AQR (along with 
AF/A5A - Air Force Warfighting Integration Capability) 
SAF/CN 
Liaison with Joint Staff J6 for Interoperability and Net-Ready Attribute: OPR is SAF/CNZA 
(Cyberspace Capabilities and Compliance Division) 
SME for DoDAF and products: OPR is SAF/CNZA 
SME for Cyber Security strategies and accreditations: OPR is SAF/CNZP (Cybersecurity 
Division) 
SAF/IE 
SME for Operational Energy including support for Energy Supportability Analysis and 
Liaison with Joint Staff J4 regarding the Energy Key Performance Parameter: OPR is 
SAF/IEN (Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Operational Energy) 
SME for energy, environment, infrastructure (e.g. MILCON, facilities), occupational health 
and safety (excluding aviation and weapon safety): OPR is SAF/IEE (Environment, Safety, 
and Infrastructure) 
SAF/SP 
Oversight of acquisition management and feasibility review for programs under the Space 
and Missile Systems Center: OPR is USSF/S5R (Space Requirements) 
DAF/JA 
SME for legal aspects of AF capability development and requirements processes and 
procedures 
AF/SE 
SME for Air Force aviation, occupational, weapons, space and system mishap prevention 
and nuclear surety programs and policy: OPR is the AF Safety Center 
8 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
AF/SG 
SME for Medical Capabilities: OPR is AFMRA/SG3/4 (Air Force Medical Readiness 
Agency - Medical Operations and Logistics) 
AF/A2/6 
SME for Intelligence threat integration and supportability planning within requirements 
assessment and approval process and Liaison with Joint Staff J2 and DIA for Threat and 
Intel Certifications: OPR is AF/A2/6O (Director for Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance Operations) 
SME for Information Operations: OPR is AF/A2/6/CX with AF/A3CX (Cyber Effects 
Division) 
AF/A3 
Oversight of Headquarters AF Flight Standards Agency as the SME for Airfield Operations : 
HAF OPR is AF/A3O (Directorate of Operations) 
Oversight of AF Agency for Modeling and Simulation and SME for AF Operational 
Training Infrastructure: OPR is AF/A3TI (Operational Training Infrastructure Division) 
SME for Integrated Air and Missile Defense: OPR is AF/A3TY (Information Operations 
Division) 
SME for Air Force Special Warfare (formerly Battlefield Airmen): OPR is AF/A3S 
(Directorate of Strategic Security) 
SME for Air Force Weather capabilities: OPR is AF/A3W (Directorate of Weather) 
AF/A4 
SME for Civil Engineering: OPR is AF/A4C (Civil Engineers) 
SME for Explosive Ordnance Disposal: OPR is AF/A4C 
SME for Fire Protection and Emergency Services: OPR is AF/A4C 
SME for Air Force Emergency Management: OPR is AF/A4C 
 SME for Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Defense: OPR is 
AF/A4C 
SME for Security Forces, Nuclear Security and Base Defense: OPR is AF/A4S (Security 
Forces) 
AF/A5 
Co-Secretariat of the Capability Development Council: OPR is AF/A5A (Air Force 
Warfighting Integration Capability) [with SAF/AQR] 
Oversight of AF Operational Capability Requirements process: OPR is AF/A5RP 
(Requirements Integration Division) 
Secretariat of the AFROC: OPR is AF/A5RP  
SME for Capability Studies and Analysis: OPR is AF/A5RA (Office of Aerospace Studies) 
SME for Combat Air Forces capability requirements: OPR is AF/A5RC (Force Application 
Division) 
SME for Conventional Munitions inventory and capability requirements: OPR is AF/A5RW 
(Weapons Requirements Division) 
SME for non-nuclear Command & Control and Communications requirements and 
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance requirements: OPR is AF/A5RI (Command 
and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Division) 
SME for Air Mobility, Special Operations, and Personnel Recovery: OPR is AF/A5RM 
(Mobility, Personnel Recovery, and Special Operations Requirements Division) 
SME for Cyber capability requirements: OPR is AF/A5RK (Cyber Division) 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
9 
SME for Electronic Warfare: OPR is AF/A5L (Directorate of Electromagnetic Spectrum 
Superiority) 
AF/A8 
Oversight of AF Planning and Programming activity: OPR is AF/A8X (Directorate of 
Planning), AF/A8P (Directorate of Programming) 
AF/A9 
SME for  conducting studies, analyses, assessments, and modeling & simulation for 
capability, capacity, and risk  
AF/A10 
SME for CBRN Survivability issues: OPR is AF/A10S (Countering Weapons of Mass 
Destruction Division) 
SME for Counter-Weapon of Mass Destruction Enterprise: OPR is AF/A10S  
SME for Nuclear Weapons Delivery: OPR is AF/A10C (Capabilities Division) 
SME for Nuclear Command, Control and Communications (NC3): OPR is AF/A10N 
(Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration) 
SME for Arms Control, International Treaties & Agreements: OPR is AF/A10P (Policy) 
AF/TE 
Oversight of Test & Evaluation policy supporting requirements documentation: OPR is 
AF/TEP (Policy, Programs, and Resources Division) 
AFOTEC 
SME for Operational Test & Evaluation and Testability determination 
HQ AFMC 
Oversight of acquisition management and feasibility review for programs under: 
AF Life Cycle Management Center 
AF Nuclear Weapons Center  
AF Security Forces Center 
AF Civil Engineering Center 
HQ AETC 
SME for Force Development Training and Education requirements issues 
 
10 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
MICHAEL R. SHOULTS, SES, DAF 
Assistant DCS, Strategy, Integration and 
Requirements 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
11 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
CJCSI 5123.01H, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) and 
Implementation of Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), 31 Aug 18 
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework, 23 Jan 20 
HAF MD 1-7, Deputy Chief of Staff Strategy, Integration and Requirements, 29 Oct 19 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 Mar 20 
AF/A5R Guidebook, Volume 1, Guidelines, Oversight, and Governance, 24 Jun 20 
Public Law 109-364 Sec. 801, 17 Oct 06 
10U.S.C., Section 2547, Acquisition-related functions of Chiefs of the Armed Forces 
Charter for the Air Force Capability Development Council, 20 June 19 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection 
AF/A5—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy, Integration and Requirements 
AF/A5A—Air Force Warfighting Integration Capability 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
AF/A9—Deputy Chief of Staff for Studies, Analysis and Assessments 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
AF/SE—Chief of Safety of the Air Force 
AF/SG—Surgeon General of the Air Force 
AF/TE—Director of Test and Evaluation 
AFGK—Air Force Gatekeeper 
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center 
AFROC—Air Force Requirements Oversight Council 
FCB—Functional Capabilities Board 
HQ AETC—Headquarters Air Education and Training Command 
HQ AFMC—Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command 
JCB—Joint Capabilities Board 
12 
AFI10-601  27 APRIL 2021 
JROC—Joint Requirements Oversight Council 
SME—Subject Matter Expert 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology & Logistics 
SAFAQX—Acquisition Integration 
SAF/CN—Deputy Chief Information Officer of the Air Force 
SAF/CNZA—Cyberspace Capabilities and Compliance Division 
SAF/CNZP—Cybersecurity Division 
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment & Energy 
SAF/SP—Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force for Space Police 
Terms 
Capability Requirement (or Requirement, Need)—A capability required to meet organizational 
roles, functions, and missions in current or future operations. To the greatest extent possible, 
capability requirements are described in relation to tasks, standards and conditions in accordance 
with the Universal Joint Task List or equivalent DoD Component Task List. 
Materiel Capability Solution—Correction of a deficiency or incorporation of new technology 
that results in development, acquisition, procurement, or fielding of a new item (including ships, 
tanks, self-propelled weapons, aircraft, space vehicles and related software & data, spares, repair 
parts, and support equipment, but excluding real property, installations, and utilities). 
Non-Materiel Capability Solution—Changes to doctrine, organization, training, (previously 
fielded) materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, or policy implemented to satisfy 
one or more capability requirements (or needs) and reduce or eliminate one or more gaps, without 
the need to develop or purchase new materiel capability solutions. 
 
