DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
WASHINGTON DC 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01
31 JANUARY 2025 
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C 
FROM:  HQ USAF/A3 
  1480 Air Force Pentagon 
  Washington DC  20330-1480 
SUBJECT:  Department of the Air Force Guidance Memorandum to Department of the Air Force 
Instruction 10-402, Mobilization Planning 
By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-402, 
Mobilization Planning, is re-designated Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) 10-402, 
and this DAF Guidance Memorandum (DAFGM) immediately implements changes to DAFI 10-
402. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory.  To the extent its directions are
inconsistent with other DAF publications, the information herein prevails in accordance with
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures.
This memorandum establishes updated guidance for Department of the Air Force 
mobilization planning. This publication applies to uniformed members of the United States Space 
Force, the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. These changes 
will be included in a complete rewrite of DAFI 10-402, which is underway and has been delayed 
by the pending comprehensive rewrite of Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1235.12, 
Accessing the Reserve Components (RC).  The memorandum clarifies the policy for end date 
modifications and extensions to Air Reserve Component mobilization orders. This publication 
supersedes the previous version dated 30 February 2024.  
This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this 
Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to or rewrite of DAFI 10-402, whichever 
is earlier. 
ADRIAN L. SPAIN 
Lieutenant General, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
Attachment: 
Changes to Department of the Air Force Instruction 10-402 
Corrective Action taken, 7 May 2025
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Change) 1.1.1. The Department of the Air Force utilizes Active, Guard, and Reserve 
Component forces to meet the needs of the United States security and disaster response efforts. 
Regular Component forces are readily available for immediate employment. The decision to 
activate non-Regular Component forces is made only after determining it is both judicious and 
prudent to do so. In order to access Guard and/or Reserve forces, the Air Force and Space Force 
must adhere to specific laws and guidance. Accession may consist of Reserve Component 
members being mobilized or volunteering for active duty to fulfill a federal mission in a federal 
status. 
(Change) 1.1.3.  For the purpose of this instruction, the term mobilization applies to members 
involuntarily activated under the mobilization statutes referenced in this instruction. Specific 
Major Commands/Field Commands are designated to oversee all mobilization requests within a 
specified operational area of responsibility. The five mobilization facilitators are: Air Combat 
Command for conventional and cyber operations; Air Force Global Strike Command for 
strategic assurance and deterrence operations; Air Force Special Operations Command for 
special operations; United States Space Force for space operations; and Air Mobility Command 
for mobility operations. Pacific Air Forces and United States Air Forces Europe will act as 
mobilization facilitators when mobilizing forces that are assigned to their Combatant Command, 
in order to meet their combatant commander’s requirements, in accordance with the Global 
Force Management Implementation Guidance Force Assignment Tables.  
(Change) 1.3.5.6.2. A mobilization extension for an individual who is currently activated when 
the extension duration is greater than 30 days beyond the original redployment date or 
operational mission end date, unless the affected member consents to the extension in writing; 
(Change) 1.3.5.6.3. A mobilization extension for an individual who is currently activated when 
the approval date to the original redeployment date or operational mission end date is less than 
30 days, unless the affected member consents to the extension in writing; 
(Change) 1.3.5.6.4. A mobilization change when the start date is revised greater than 30 days 
duration or when the approval to activation (earliest of original/revised) period is less than 45 
days, unless waived by the member in writing; 
(Replace) 1.3.5.6.5.  Cancellation of the deployment of a reserve component unit during the 180-
day period preceding its scheduled deployment date when a Regular component unit will be 
deployed to perform the same mission.  Congressional Notification is required in accordance 
with Section 513 of Public Law 113-66, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014. 
(Add) 1.3.5.6.6.  Mobilization when Congressional Notification is required in accordance with 
Section 515 of Public Law 110-181, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, 
requiring military departments to provide members of the Air Reserve Component who are 
ordered to active duty for more than 30 days in support of a contingency operation, advance 
notice not less than 30 days before the mobilization start date in so far as is practicable.  When 
members waive advance notification in writing, Congressional Notification is not required and 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
mobilization approval can occur by the Secretary of the Air Force and USD(P&R) Notification 
Matrix. 
(Delete) 1.3.5.7.1. 
(Delete) 1.3.5.7.2. 
(Add) 1.3.5.7.5. The Secretary of Defense has delegated involuntary activation approval 
authority to the Secretary of the Air Force for routine, pre-planned, and standard emergent 
mobilizations when the notification is greater than 60 days, or between 30 and 60 days if the 
member has elected to waive their requirements in writing. 
(Change) 1.3.5.8. Coordination and notification of alert/mobilization requests occurs through the 
weekly Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness Notification Matrix, or the Secretary of Defense Orders Book. 
(Change) 1.3.6.  A member is notified of pending activation by the unit of assignment when the 
member is selected to fill a mobilization requirement. 
(Change) 1.4.2.  The mobilization period will include pre-deployment administrative actions, 
travel, deployment, earned leave, Major Command/Field Command downtime or post-
deployment administrative actions if downtime is not authorized, and administrative absence 
days (accrued under Post-Deployment/Mobilization Respite Absence in accordance with 
Department of the Air Force Instruction 36-3003, Military Leave Program).  Member’s will not 
carry leave over from a previous Active Duty for Operational Support (ADOS) tour to a 
mobilization order.  Deployment specific pre-deployment training may be included in the 
mobilization period or, with mobilization facilitator approval, conducted under Title 10 United 
States Code (U.S.C.) § 12301(d) at the unit’s discretion provided the mandays are available and 
the member(s) volunteer. (T-2). 
(Change) 1.4.6.2.  The Air Force Reserve Force Generation Center or the National Guard 
Bureau mobilization office submits administrative changes via the Air Force Mobilization 
Management Site (AFMMS) to the Mobilization Facilitator for coordination. The Mobilization 
Facilitator routes the change request to AF/A3OD, who staffs the request to the Secretary of the 
Air Force and to the Office of the Secretary of Defense.   
(Change) 1.4.12. The approval of a preplanned or rotational mobilization order shall occur no 
later than the date specified in the AF/A3OD Air Reserve Component (ARC) Mobilization 
Process (AMP) Business Rules in order to afford the Guard and/or Reserve members the 
opportunity to receive delay-effective-date activation orders at least 180 days prior to the 
mobilization start date. 
(Change) 1.4.12.1. AF/A3OD shall inform the Department of the Air Force approval authority 
of any mobilization package that fails to meet the Department of the Air Force submission 
timeline requirement and the reason for the delay.  
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Delete) 1.4.12.2. 
(Change) 1.4.17.  Traditional unit reservists should be considered for mobilization prior to an 
Individual Mobilization Augmentee unless the support is for the Individual Mobilization 
Augmentee’s Regular component unit of assignment.  Individual Mobilization Augmentees are 
primarily activated to support their unit of assignment. (T-2). 
(Add) 1.4.17.1.  Department of Defense and Department of the Air Force guidance support 
mobilization of Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) without Joint Staff validation 
provided the IMA is being mobilized in-place when:  
(Add) 1.4.17.1.1. Backfilling a Regular component position deployed to an Air Expeditionary 
Force location; or  
(Add) 1.4.17.1.2. Augmenting Headquarters, Department of the Air Force (HAF) Staff, Major 
Command (MAJCOM), Field Command, or Numbered Air Force (NAF) staff functions that 
must expand during contingency operations.  (Source: AFI 38-101, Manpower and 
Organization.)   
(Add) 1.4.17.2. Where an IMA is mobilized to deploy for their unit in-lieu-of a Regular 
component member (to fill a recurring Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) deployment 
requirement), an approved Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP) requirement 
should already be in place. The existence of the IMA position in a Regular component unit 
validates the requirement to mobilize the IMA if an appropriate authority exists and there is 
sufficient MPA and funds to support the activation. With IMAs in the force structure, the 
potential for the IMA to be recalled to active duty already has been determined, therefore SecAF 
or SecDef may, at their discretion, mobilize IMAs without additional Joint Staff validation of the 
requirement/Force Tracking Number. 
(Change) 1.5.2. Title 10 U.S.C.§ 12301(b) (Annual Tour). Refer to Air Force Manual 36-2136, 
Reserve Personnel Participation.  
(Change) 1.7.1. Involuntary to Voluntary. Mobilization Facilitators will initially select the 
appropriate activation authority when building a mobilization request.  The ARC staff will 
review the activation authority initially selected by the Mobilization Facilitator.  If the 
Mobilization Facilitator determines that it is more advantageous for all or some of the members 
to activate under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d), they will coordinate with the ARC to adjust the authority 
in DCAPES.  Any positions that are identified to activate under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d) will be 
removed from the involuntary activation package.   
(Add) 1.7.1.1. Once SAF/MR approves a MOBORD and members are identified for involuntary 
activation, they will activate under the approved authority and will not have the option to change 
the authority cited on their activation order.  If the ANG/AFRC is unable to fill a position with 
an individual from the unit(s) listed on an approved MOBORD, and activation timelines do not 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
allow for the addition of a UIC to the MOBORD for another available unit assigned to the same 
Reserve Component Period (RCP), the ARC may change the activation authority for that 
position to 10 USC 12301(d) in order to fill the position with a volunteer from a unit not listed 
on the approved MOBORD.  If unable to fill the position with a volunteer, the ARC will notify the 
Mobilization Facilitator of the shortfall.   
(Add) 1.7.1.2. The ARC may only make modifications to the activation authority in DCAPES 
after the MOBORD has been published; prior to MOBORD publishing, the Mobilization 
Facilitator possesses the final decision in assigning activation authority.  Mobilization 
Facilitators and ARCs will only change approved activation authorities because of substantive 
changes that affect the mission requirements that necessitated the original MOBORD. 
(Add) 1.8. Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs). 
(Add) 1.8.1. IMA usage outside the unit of assignment must be approved by both active and 
reserve component chains of command. (T-2). If the first general officer in the IMA’s Regular 
component chain of command is not at the wing/delta/garrison level, approval authority resides 
with the first general officer in the active chain of command at the supported MAJCOM/Field 
Command. (T-2). 
(Add) 1.8.2. An IMA can be mobilized for the following purposes with the approval of the 
appropriate authority: 
(Add) 1.8.2.1. To fill a recurring deployment requirement for his or her assigned Regular 
component unit in-lieu of a Regular component member. All Air Force and Space Force 
members are inherently deployable; however, Regular component units will consider Regular 
component members for deployment prior to mobilization of IMAs. IMAs are not intended for 
warfighting capability and will not be postured into Unit Type Codes (UTCs). 
(Add) 1.8.2.2.  In-place to backfill a Regular component position deployed to an AEF location 
(including pre/post-mobilization requirements) when critical home station functions must 
continue. IMAs may be mobilized under the authority associated with the Regular component 
member’s deployment, provided it is a valid authority for IMAs. For example, a Regular 
component member deployed to Al Udeid, Qatar for a counterterrorism mission under Operation 
FREEDOM’S SENTINEL could be backfilled by an IMA under Title 10 U.S.C.§ 12302 (Partial 
Mobilization). In addition, the deployed backfilled Regular component personnel must be on 
official Contingency, Exercise, and Deployment orders and away from the home station work 
center for a period exceeding 20 continuous days. (T-3).  This requirement eliminates sporadic, 
short-term deployments such as area of responsibility site visits that do not place an undue stress 
on the affected work center.  
(Add) 1.8.2.3. To augment staff functions that expand as a result of contingency operations, but 
are not staffed to handle such expanded hours. Contingency support must cause staff operations 
to experience increased or new workload requirements for extended periods of time. (T-3).  The 
initial headquarters spin-up for a contingency response may drive some extended hours, but 
generally not enough to warrant IMA mobilization. In such cases, it may be appropriate to seek 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
Reserve augmentation on a temporary volunteer basis utilizing the Military Personnel 
Appropriation man-day program defined in DAFI 36-2619, Active Duty Operational Support 
(ADOS) – Active Component (AC) Man-Day Program. 
(Add) 1.8.3. For IMAs filling deployment taskings, the unit where the IMA is assigned may 
need to work with the equivalent organizations at the nearest Air Force Base or Space Force 
Base to the IMAs home of record to ensure deployment specific training, individual equipment 
supply, and weapon’s issue occur in a timely manner when it is not practical to have the IMA 
completely process through the unit of assignment. 
(Add) 1.8.4. DoD Agencies requesting IMA mobilization should coordinate and complete the 
agency to agency transfer of Operations and Maintenance funds to execute the mobilization prior 
to the mobilization facilitator initiating the mobilization request staffing. 
(Add) 1.8.5. The existence of IMA positions on manning documents at Joint Organizations does 
not negate the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs policy on 
providing MPA to these joint organizations.  Therefore, if joint organizations do not have 
sufficient MPA for their request, they need to request the capability needed through a Request 
For Forces in accordance with the GFM process and DAFI 36-2619. 
(Add) 1.9. Pre-trained Individual Manpower (PIM). Members of the Individual Ready 
Reserve, Standby-Reserve, and Retired Reserve provide additional sources of trained manpower 
that may be mobilized to meet the needs of the service. During periods of war or large and 
sustained contingencies when significant demands on specific Air Force and Space Force 
Specialty Codes make the combination of Regular component plus Ready Reserve forces 
insufficient to meet requirements, mobilization of Airmen from the Pre-trained Individual 
Manpower program may be warranted in some situations. These include periods of war, or large 
and sustained contingencies when significant demands on specific Air Force and Space Force 
Specialty Codes make existing forces insufficient to meet requirements. Personnel program 
guidance for Pre-trained Individual Manpower is contained in DAFMAN 36-2114, Management 
of the Air Force Reserve Individual Reserve (IR) and Full-Time Support (FTS) Programs. 
(Change) 2.5. Joint Staff Regional Operations and Force Management (J-35) Directorate 
(Change) 2.5.1. The J-35 receives and processes the mobilization request for Secretary of 
Defense approval. 
(Delete) 2.5.2. 
(Change) 2.6.2.2. The identified Reserve Component members elected to waive applicable 
notification and/or dwell requirements (minimum or ratio) in writing, if applicable. 
(Change) 2.6.2.6. Filler (replacement for a previously authorized member) has no less than 30 
days between approval and activation and all other criteria for Service Secretary approval was 
met. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Delete) 2.7.2 
(Delete) 2.7.3. 
(Change) 2.8.3. SAF/FM MILPERS Appropriation Manager provides overall budget and 
funding levels to AF/A1MC and AF/A3OD via an authorization document. SAF/FM authorized 
levels may not be exceeded without provision of additional resources through the established 
MPA manday resourcing process and/or approval from SAF/FM MILPERS Appropriation 
Manager. 
(Change) 2.8.4. SAF/FM obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or 
procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
(Delete) 2.8.5. 
(Delete) 2.8.6. 
(Change) 2.9.4. SAF/GC may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a 
General Schedule GS-15. If a delegation is used, SAF/GC must provide a delegation letter to 
AF/A3OD. 
(Change) 2.11.5. SAF/MR will provide Air Force Reserve Command and the National Guard 
Bureau with a template to use in reporting timeliness of individual activation orders issuance and 
task them to provide this data on a quarterly basis. 
(Change) 2.11.6. SAF/MR will prepare and submit a quarterly report to USD(P&R) and 
ASD(M&RA) on Title 10 U.S.C.§ 12304b utilization in accordance with Department of Defense 
Instruction 1235.12. 
(Delete) 2.12.2. 
(Delete) 2.12.3. 
(Change) 2.13.2. AF/A1 coordinates on all mobilization requests to ensure sufficient mandays 
are available for allocation and that mobilizations requested under Title 10 U.S.C.§12304b are 
commensurate with the budget narrative submission for that fiscal year. 
(Delete) 2.13.4 
(Change) 2.15.3.4.  AF/A3OD notifies the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness (USD(P&R)) of administrative changes made to previously approved mobilization 
orders received from the Air Reserve Component and the Mobilization Facilitators, via the 
weekly Notification Matrix. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Change) 2.15.3.5. AF/A3OD electronically distributes each approved mobilization order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization facilitator, 
AF/A1, AF/JA, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC. 
(Delete) 2.15.3.15. AF/A3OD will consolidate a list of all command mobilization representatives 
provided by mobilization facilitators, all other Major Commands, and Guard; and provide a 
contacts list to the providing offices and to each individual on the list. 
(Delete) 2.16.2. 
(Delete) 2.16.3. 
(Delete) 2.17.2. 
(Delete) 2.17.3. 
(Delete) 2.19.2. 
(Delete) 2.19.3. 
(Delete) 2.20.2. 
(Delete) 2.20.3. 
(Delete) 2.21.2. 
(Delete) 2.21.3. 
(Delete) 2.22.2. 
(Change) 2.23.2. Consistent with 10 U.S.C. § 806 and 9037 and DAFI 51-101, The Air Force 
Judge Advocate General’s Corps (AFJAG) Operations, Accessions, and Professional 
Development, The Judge Advocate General (TJAG), acting through AF/JAX, is the sourcing and 
adjudication authority for the deployment of judge advocates and paralegals.  
(Added) 2.23.6. AF/JA provides legal advice on mobilization processes and packages to the 
Secretary of the Air Force, CSAF, CSO, and officers and agencies of the Department of the Air 
Force in accordance with applicable statute and policy.  
(Delete) 2.25.2. 
(Delete) 2.25.3. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Change) 2.26.1. Air Combat Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for non-nuclear 
and non-special operations conventional and cyber forces and is the focal point for all 
mobilization requests for these Guard and Reserve conventional forces. 
(Change) 2.27.1.5. Air Force Special Operations Command submits the O-6 (or GS-15)-
approved and Major Command/Field Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
(Change) 2.28.1.5. Air Mobility Command submits the O-6 (or GS-15)-approved and Major 
Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
(Change) 2.30.1. Air Force Global Strike Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for 
Strategic Assurance and Deterrence operations and, as such, is the focal point for all mobilization 
requests for Guard and Reserve long range strike missions (e.g., Bomber Task Force) and when 
mobilizing forces that are assigned to United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM), in order 
to meet STRATCOM requirements. 
(Change) 2.30.1.5. Air Force Global Strike Command submits the O-6 (or GS-15)-approved and 
Major Command/Field Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
(Change) 2.32. Chief of Space Operations. 
(Change) 2.32.1. United States Space Force serves as the mobilization facilitator for space 
operations and, as such, is the focal point for all mobilization requests for Air National Guard 
and Air Force Reserve space operations forces. 
(Change) 2.32.1.1. United States Space Force identifies mobilization requirements. 
(Change) 2.32.1.2. United States Space Force coordinates with the Air National Guard and/or 
Air Force Reserve Command, as applicable, to identify members to fill the mobilization 
requirement. 
(Change) 2.32.1.4. In the event a last minute change is identified, United States Space Force 
staffs the mobilization request to respective tasked Field Commands for their coordination. Any 
unresolved comments shall be elevated within the applicable chain(s) of command for resolution. 
(Change) 2.32.1.5. United States Space Force submits the O-6 (or GS-15)-approved and Field 
Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
(Change) 2.32.1.6. United States Space Force coordinates with AF/A3OD, the other 
mobilization facilitators, the Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command on the templates for use in 
the mobilization process. 
(Change) 2.32.1.7. United States Space Force is required to utilize the templates AF/A3OD 
created, coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process.  
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Change) 2.32.1.8. United States Space Force serves as the subject matter expert for any questions 
or any issues related to their mobilization request as AF/A3OD staffs the mobilization package 
through Headquarters Air Force.  
(Change) 2.32.1.9. United States Space Force will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and modifications to assess if any unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded 
and/or if an extension is needed for operational or administrative requirements. 
(Change) 2.32.1.10. United States Space Force will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and modifications to assess whether an extension is required. If so, the United States 
Space Force will submit a mobilization extension request for approval within 14 days of the Global 
Force Management Allocation Plan modification release together with the USAF plan to sustain this 
operational requirement once the extended period is complete.  
(Change) 2.32.1.11. United States Space Force will assist the applicable air component, the Guard, 
Air Force Reserve Command, and AF/A3OD with any requested changes to previously approved 
mobilization authorization or mobilization order. 
(Change) 2.32.1.12. United States Space Force must provide a written risk assessment with any 
substitution request submitted within 50 days prior to the mobilization start date. The risk assessment 
must address as a minimum 1) impact if the position is not filled and 2) why neither a Regular 
component nor a Title 10 U.S.C.§12301(d) solution is feasible. 
(Change) 2.32.2. United States Space Force coordinates on all Department of the Air Force 
mobilization policy. 
(Change) 2.32.3. United States Space Force may develop internal guidance and procedures to 
ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this instruction. 
(Change) 2.32.4. United States Space Force obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, 
guidance, and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
(Change) 2.32.5. United States Space Force must work with the applicable mobilization 
facilitator and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized 
personnel supporting USSF are released from operational commitments and returned to home 
station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-processing within the period 
specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
(Change) 2.32.6. United States Space Force in coordination with the AF/A3OD will establish 
staffing timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
(Change) 2.33.4. Pacific Air Forces must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator and 
assist the Air Reserve Component during all mobilizations. The air component will ensure that 
all mobilized command-coded personnel are released from operational commitments and 
returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-processing 
within the period specified in the individual’s activation orders. Pacific Air Forces will act as a 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
mobilization facilitator when requesting to mobilize forces that are assigned to their Combatant 
Command, in order to meet their combatant commander’s Assigned Force Demand 
requirements, in accordance with the Global Force Management Implementation Guidance Force 
Assignment Tables. (T-2). 
(Change) 2.34.4. United States Air Forces in Europe – Air Forces Africa must work with the 
applicable mobilization facilitator and assist the Air Reserve Component during all 
mobilizations. The air component will ensure that all mobilized command-coded personnel are 
released from operational commitments and returned to home station in sufficient time to 
accomplish all demobilization and out-processing within the period specified in the individual’s 
activation orders. United States Air Forces Europe will act as a mobilization facilitator when 
requesting to mobilize forces that are assigned to their Combatant Command, in order to meet 
their combatant commander’s Assigned Force Demand requirements, in accordance with the 
Global Force Management Implementation Guidance Force Assignment Tables. (T-2). 
(Replace) 2.35.7. Air Force Reserve Command shall adhere to all statutes and Department of 
Defense and Department of the Air Force policies when determining whether a Reserve 
Component member is eligible to fill a mobilization requirement.  In accordance with 
Department of Defense policy, Reserve Component members may elect to waive certain 
requirements in writing; however, they are not required to waive these requirements, nor may 
they be expected or coerced to do so.  A Reserve Component member’s decision whether to 
waive certain Department of Defense mobilization requirements in writing may affect who is the 
approval authority for the mobilization request.  Reserve Component members who elect not to 
waive certain mobilization requirements in writing may still be involuntarily activated by 
appropriate approval authority. 
(Change) 2.35.7.2. Air Force Reserve Command shall ensure commanders ask an individual if 
the member waives the Department of Defense standard requiring Secretary of Defense approval 
for the mobilization of an individual having a mobilization-to-dwell ratio of 1:4 or less and/or 
being activated with less than 12 months of dwell in writing, when applicable. 
(Change) 2.35.7.3. Air Force Reserve Command shall ensure commanders ask an individual if 
the member waives the applicable Department of Defense notification standard(s) in writing, 
when applicable. 
(Change) 2.35.7.4. Air Force Reserve Command shall ensure commanders ask an individual if 
the member waives Public Law 110-181 § 515, Advance notice to members of reserve 
components of deployment in support of contingency operations, requiring military departments 
to provide members of the Air Reserve Component who are ordered to active duty for more than 
30 days in support of a contingency operation, in so far as is practicable, advance notice not less 
than 30 days before the mobilization start date in writing, when applicable. 
(Change) 2.35.10. Upon receipt of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, Air Force Reserve 
Command distributes the mobilization order to its tasked units within the timeline associated 
with the specific type of mobilization and provides a copy to each applicable mobilization 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
facilitator and AF/A3OD. AF Form 938 (Request and Authorization for Active Duty 
Taining/Active Duty Tour) or Air Force Reserve Order Writing System (AROWS-R) activation 
order will be provided to the member at least 180 days prior to the mobilization start date, or no 
later than 30 days after transmission of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, whichever is 
later. If verbal order of the commander is used, the activation orders must be distributed to the 
member as soon as possible (see Attachment 9 and Air Force Instruction 65-103, Temporary 
Duty/Special Orders). 
(Change) 2.35.11.3.  When a Deployment Availability code is used to release the original 
member, Air Force Reserve Command shall verify the member Deployment Availability code is 
documented in the system of record, specifically for substitutions. (T-2).   
(Delete) 2.35.12. 
(Change) 2.35.13. Air Force Reserve Command will provide a quarterly report to SAF/MR on 
the timeliness of individual member activation. Data will be submitted utilizing a SAF/MR-
provided template and will include the reason for any individual order issuance less than 180 
days prior to rotational (non-emergent) activation. 
(Add) 2.35.16. Air Force Reserve Command provides advance notification of pending activation 
to units or individuals up to 24 months in advance, in writing, and documents the notification in 
the mobilization system of record. 
(Add) 2.35.17. Air Force Reserve Command ensures members are notified of pending activation 
by the unit of assignment when the member is selected to fill a mobilization requirement upon 
formal notification. 
(Replace) 2.36.9. NGB/CF shall adhere to all statutes and Department of Defense, Department 
of the Air Force policies when determining whether a Reserve Component member is eligible to 
fill a mobilization requirement.  In accordance with Department of Defense policy, Reserve 
Component members may elect to waive certain requirements in writing; however, they are not 
required to waive these requirements, nor may they be expected or coerced to do so.  A Reserve 
Component member’s decision whether to waive certain Department of Defense mobilization 
requirements in writing may affect who is the approval authority for the mobilization request.  
Reserve Component members who elect not to waive certain mobilization requirements in 
writing may still be involuntarily activated by appropriate approval authority. 
(Change) 2.36.9.2. NGB/CF shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the member waives 
the Department of Defense standard requiring Secretary of Defense approval for the mobilization 
of an individual having a mobilization-to-dwell ratio of 1:4 or less/or being activated with less 
than 12 months of dwell in writing, when applicable. 
(Change) 2.36.9.3. NGB/CF shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the member waives 
the applicable Department of Defense notification standard(s) in writing, when applicable. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Change) 2.36.9.4. NGB/CF shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the member waives 
Public Law 110-181 § 515 requiring military departments to provide members of the Air Reserve 
Component who are ordered to active duty for more than 30 days in support of a contingency 
operation, in so far as is practicable, advance notice not less than 30 days before the mobilization 
start date in writing, when applicable. 
(Change) 2.36.12. Upon receipt of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, NGB/CF distributes 
the mobilization order to its tasked units within the timeline associated with the specific type of 
mobilization and provides a copy to each applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. AF 
Form 938 (Request and Authorization for Active Duty Taining/Active Duty Tour) or Air National 
Guard Reserve Order Writing System (AROWS) activation order will be provided to the 
member at least 180 days prior to the mobilization start date, or no later than 30 days after 
transmission of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, whichever is later. If verbal order of the 
commander is used, the activation orders must be distributed to the member as soon as possible 
(see Attachment 9 and Air Force Instruction 65-103). 
(Change) 2.36.13.3. When a Deployment Availability code is used to release the original 
member, the Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF) shall verify the member Deployment 
Availability code is documented in the system of record, specifically for substitutions. (T-2). 
(Delete) 2.36.15. 
(Change) 2.36.16. NGB/CF will provide a quarterly report to SAF/MR on the timeliness of 
individual member activation. Data will be submitted utilizing a SAF/MR-provided template and 
will include the reason for any individual order issuance less than 180 days prior to rotational 
(non-emergent) activation. 
(Add) 2.36.19. NGB/CF provides advance notification of pending activation to units or 
individuals up to 24 months in advance, in writing, and documents the notification in the 
mobilization system of record. 
(Add) 2.36.20. NGB/CF ensures members are notified of pending activation by the unit of 
assignment when the member is selected to fill a mobilization requirement upon formal 
notification. 
(Replace) 3.1.  ARC Mobilization Process (AMP).  The intent of the AMP is to rapidly and 
accurately build, staff, and obtain formal approval of mobilization packages, with a goal of 
providing ARC Airmen delayed-effective-date activation orders at least 180 days before the 
mobilization start date for rotational and pre-planned requirements, at least 120 days before the 
mobilization start date for standard emergent requirements, and as soon as possible for time-
critical emergent requirements.  The ARC Mobilization Process is a collaborative and 
coordinated effort between the designated mobilization facilitator, the ARC (National Guard 
Bureau (NGB) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Force Generation Center (FGC)), HAF 
staff (AF/A3OD and AF/AlMT), and tasked ARC units. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) 3.1.1.  Designated mobilization facilitators, ARCs, and HAF staff will use the Air Force 
Mobilization Management Site (AFMMS) Intelink site as the primary means to create and 
coordinate all ARC baseline mobilization requests, as well as change requests for previously 
approved Air Force mobilization orders (MOBORD).  AFMMS is a secure web-based 
collaborative platform used to share mobilization documents and is accessible at: 
https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/amcmflrs/SitePages/Home.aspx.    
(Add) 3.1.2.  Prerequisites for Mobilization.  In order for ARC mobilization to occur, there 
must exist: 
(Add) 3.1.2.1.  A validated and sourced combatant commander (CCDR) requirement recorded in 
Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager (JCRM) or in the Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking 
System (FMTS) and contained in the approved GFMAP, or in a Service-directed and Global 
Force Management Data Initiative-compliant tool.  In addition, the requirement must be built in 
DCAPES prior to the Mobilization Facilitator submitting a mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
(Add) 3.1.2.1.1.  In order to identify ARC sourcing in JCRM, the force provider will select either 
“Guard” or “Reserve” as the Component for a particular Force Tracking Number (FTN) Line 
Number, except as described below.  Due to the highly integrated nature of some capabilities, it 
may not be possible for force providers to specify the exact quantity of ARC forces that will be 
sourced to fulfill a requirement.  In such cases, the force provider may list the sourced 
component in JCRM as “Active” and include Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) Remarks that identify 
the need for ARC forces to support a particular FTN Line Number.  This information may be 
used in lieu of the force provider selecting either “Guard” or “Reserve” as the sourced 
Component to validate the need to mobilize ARC forces. 
(Add) 3.1.2.1.2.  Force providers must register assigned force demand for ARC forces in JCRM 
in accordance with Chariman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 3130.06C, Global 
Force Management Allocation Policies and Procedures, and the current GFMIG.   
(Add) 3.1.2.2.  An approved involuntary activation authority as specified in Title 10 U.S.C.  A 
mobilization facilitator may request to mobilize ARC forces under any Title 10 U.S.C. 
mobilization authority that (1) has been approved for use by the appropriate authority and (2) is 
appropriate for the supported operation/mission.  The activation authority must be annotated in 
DCAPES prior to the Mobilization Facilitator submitting a mobilization request to AF/A3OD.  
(Add) 3.1.2.2.1.  For requests to mobilize ARC units/members under all Title 10 U.S.C. sections, 
except for 12304b, the supported operation/mission must be linked directly to the circumstances, 
situation, or event for which the President or Congress approved use of the mobilization 
authority.  Additionally, the mobilization authority must be approved for use during the time 
period in which ARC forces will be activated in support of a validated CCDR requirement. 
(Add) 3.1.2.2.2.  For requests to mobilize ARC units under Title 10 U.S.C. § 12304b, the 
supported mission area must be described in the final 12304b budget exhibit narrative for the 
same fiscal year (FY) as that of the supported pre-planned CCDR requirement. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
(Add) 3.1.2.2.2.1.  The actual submission of the defense budget materials to Congress is required 
before SecAF (or delegee) may issue orders to active duty under 10 U.S.C. § 12304b. 
(Add) 3.1.2.2.2.2.  Although the delayed-effective-date orders under 10 U.S.C. § 12304b may be 
issued at any time after the submission to Congress of the defense budget materials notifying 
Congress of the intended use of §12304b, the effective date of those orders (the first day that the 
unit may enter active duty and be funded in the FY addressed in the defense budget materials) 
may not be earlier than the first day of that FY referred to in the defense budget materials.  If the 
supported mission area was approved in the previous FY, the effective date of the orders may be 
in the previous FY, and days in the previous FY will be funded from the previous FY budget.  
For example, if SecAF issues delayed-effective-date orders to mobilize an ARC unit for a FY22 
pre-planned mission in support of a combatant command, the effective date of those orders may 
be prior to 1 October 2021, provided the same pre-planned mission area was also included in the 
FY21 defense budget materials and the man-days prior to 1 October 2021 are funded from the 
FY21 budget. 
(Add) 3.1.2.3. Sufficent MPA and funding to support the duration of the mobilization order 
request. 
(Replace) 3.2. Mobilization Packages.  ARC mobilization packages are groupings of similar 
requirements/capabilities that are compiled for ease of coordination.  There are two primary 
types of mobilization packages:  baseline and change request. 
(Replace) 3.2.1. Baseline Mobilization Package.  A baseline package is the initial request to 
mobilize ARC forces under an approved Title 10 U.S.C. involuntary activation authority based 
on a Joint Staff-validated requirement and an approved ARC sourcing solution.  AF/A3OD will 
review all baseline mobilization requests to ensure compliance with statutory requirements, as 
well as Department of the Air Force and DoD policy.  AF/A3OD will staff baseline mobilization 
requests for formal approval by the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) or delegate, Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) via the Notification Matrix 
(NM), and/or the Secretary of Defense via the Secretary of Defense Orders Book (SDOB) in 
accordance with DoDI 1235.12, DAFI 10-402, the AMP Business Rules, and other applicable 
policy and guidance.  Time and conditions permitting, the SecAF or delegate will approve all 
ARC mobilization requests prior to obtaining USD(P&R) or SecDef formal approval, when 
required.  If the SecDef approves the mobilization of ARC forces via a SDOB, AF/A3OD may 
publish a MOBORD without further coordination or approval.  Mobilization facilitators and 
ARC staffs will adhere to the following guidelines when building baseline mobilization 
packages: 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitators will build baseline packages in a manner that keeps all 
individual mobilization start dates within as narrow of a window as possible.  Broad mobilization 
windows increase likelihood of MOBORD changes due to invalid sourcing solutions and/or 
splitting packages if the SecDef approves mobilization in support of some FTN Line Numbers 
via a Reserve Component SDOB, prior to approving the GFMAP Base Order. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.1.  A baseline mobilization package will fulfill CCDR requests for forces from 
only one fiscal year (FY), based on the second and third digits of the supported FTN(s).  The 
planned activation period may extend into the previous or following FY due to pre-deployment 
training requirements, TDY tour length, overlap, MAJCOM/Field Command downtime, and/or 
accrued leave; however, each mobilization package will be in support of FTNs from only one 
FY.  For enduring requirements, the mobilization facilitator will build and submit a new baseline 
mobilization package for each rotation the supports subsequent FTNs.    
(Add) 3.2.1.1.2.  For Agile Combat Support (ACS) requirements, the designated mobilization 
facilitator will build a separate baseline mobilization package for each rotation within the FY.  
For example, if an ARC ACS capability is required to support two planned rotations (e.g. 
FY22.1 and FY22.2), the mobilization facilitator will build two separate baseline mobilization 
packages. 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.2.1.  Airmen from more than one ARC Unit/Unit Identification Code (UIC) may 
be mobilized on the same MOBORD to fulfill the CCDR requirements for a given ACS rotation. 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.2.2.  An ACS baseline mobilization package may be in support of more than one 
CCDR, FTN, and/or operation/mission.  
(Add) 3.2.1.1.3.  For aviation requirements, the designated mobilization facilitator will build a 
separate baseline mobilization package for each planned unit/aircraft rotation.  The standard 
TDY tour length will depend on the aircraft mission design series.  Airmen from more than one 
ARC Unit/UIC may be mobilized on the same MOBORD to fulfill the CCDR requirements for a 
given aviation rotation.  It is not necessary to build a separate mobilization package for internal 
rotations that are authorized in accordance with MAJCOM, Field Command, and CCDR policy. 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.4.  Individual and MOBORD activation period durations cannot exceed the 
limitations stipulated in the activation authority statute (e.g. Title 10 U.S.C. 12302, 12304b, etc.) 
associated with the package.  If a package violates any of the aforementioned criterion, the 
mobilization facilitator must remove the applicable requirements and build a separate 
mobilization package. 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.5.  For requests to mobilize a unit under Title 10 U.S.C. § 12304b, the overall 
activation period duration of the MOBORD may not exceed 365 days. 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.6.  Mobilization facilitators may authorize internal rotations in accordance with 
MAJCOM, Field Command, and CCDR policies.  See paragraph 3.2.2.4.1 for information 
regarding the addition of internal rotations after AF/A3OD publishes a baseline MOBORD. 
(Add) 3.2.1.1.7.  The number of pax mobilized at any given time in support of a FTN Line 
Number may not exceed the pax authorized in the applicable GFMAP Annex.  If internal 
rotations are authorized, the total number of pax listed on a MOBORD may exceed the pax 
authorized in the applicable GFMAP Annex for the supported FTN Line Number, and the 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
number of pax mobilized at the same time may temporarily exceed the pax authorized in the 
applicable GFMAP Annex during the time needed to mobilize the incoming rotator(s), 
accomplish overlap at the deployed location, and de-mobilize the outgoing rotator(s).  
(Replace) 3.2.2. Change Request Package.  Mobilization facilitators and ARCs use change 
packages to request MOBORD modifications to increase or decrease the pax count; modify 
activation start/end dates; add or remove UICs/Units; and/or correct administrative or 
typographical errors, including adding or removing other mobilization information, such as a 
Plan Identification Number (PID), FTN, Unit Type Code (UTC), supported operation, and/or 
deployed location.   
(Add) 3.2.2.1.  Mobilization facilitators and ARCs will include with all change requests a 
justification for the MOBORD modification.  Mobilization facilitators will validate change 
requests initiated by the ARC.  Except for correction of administrative and typographical errors, 
mobilization facilitators and ARCs will initiate change requests only when there is an operational 
necessity to do so.  Mobilization facilitators and ARCs will not initiate change requests solely for 
the convenience of mobilized units/members.  
(Add) 3.2.2.2.  If seeking formal approval via the Notification Matrix, mobilization facilitators 
will submit a change request to AF/A3OD NLT 30 days before approval suspense specified in 
DoDI 1235.12.  If seeking formal approval via the SDOB, mobilization facilitator will submit a 
change request to AF/A3OD NLT 21 days prior to the next scheduled SDOB, unless extenuating 
circumstances, such as a short-notice change in CCDR requirements, prevent doing so. 
(Add) 3.2.2.3.  AF/A3OD will review all change requests to ensure compliance with statutory 
requirements, as well as Air Force and DoD policy.  AF/A3OD will staff all change requests for 
AF/A3OD, SecAF (SAF/MR), USD(P&R), and/or SecDef approval in accordance with DoDI 
1235.12, DAFI 10-402, the AMP Business Rules, and other applicable policy and guidance.  
Time and conditions permitting, SecAF or delegate will approve a MOBORD change request 
prior to obtaining USD(P&R) or SecDef approval, when required.  Change requests must be 
approved by the appropriate authority prior to AF/A3OD publishing a MOBORD change.  
Mobilized ARC units/members will adhere to the most recently published MOBORD (baseline 
or change) until the requested change is approved and published. (T-1). 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.  Change Request Types.  The circumstances of each change request may be 
different, so change request initiators must address the “who, what, why, when, and where” of 
each situation, as applicable, using proper spelling, punctuation, and grammar in accordance with 
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill.  In order to minimize the administrative workload, a change 
request may address more than one item on a MOBORD.  If a change request addresses multiple 
items, requestors will select the package type associated with the item that requires the highest 
level of approval.  Below are the authorized change request types.  AF/A3OD may authorize 
additional change request types, as required. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance  
(Add) 3.2.2.4.1.  Pax Increase.  Reasons for a MOBORD pax increase include, but are not 
limited to, an increase/change in CCDR requirements, the addition of internal rotations, and 
adding positions required for mission accomplishment.   
(Add) 3.2.2.4.1.1.  Any time ARC members are added to a mobilization order after the baseline 
order is published, OSD(P&R) considers this a new mobilization and applies the same formal 
notification requirements – 60 days or more for RC units (defined as two or more individual RC 
members from the same unit) and 120 days for individual RC members.  ARC members may 
elect to waive notification requirements in writing; however, they may not be compelled or 
coerced to do so.  Refer to the AMP Business Rules for pax increase approval authority and 
submission timelines. 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.1.2.  Mobilization facilitators will not submit a change request to increase the pax 
count on a MOBORD for the purpose of obtaining financial resources to fund volunteers.  
(Add) 3.2.2.4.2.  Pax Decrease.  Reasons for a MOBORD pax decrease include, but are not 
limited to, off-ramping members prior to activation start date due to reduction in combatant 
commander requirements (Do Not Fill), a reclama due a lack of available and qualified 
personnel, removing internal rotations, and removing positions that are not required for mission 
accomplishment (e.g. Deployment Requirements Manning Document (DRMD) tailoring).  If a 
member affected by a pax reduction desires to proceed with activation, is unable to be re-
missioned/re-allocated to another similar requirement, and is incurring a hardship, the member 
may be eligible to submit a hardship claim in accordance with DAFI 36-2619.  
(Add) 3.2.2.4.3.  Activation Start Date Modification.  Reasons for a MOBORD activation start 
date modification include, but are not limited to, a change in combatant commander operational 
requirements, the addition or removal of pre-deployment training requirements, pre-deployment 
training course date changes, and changes to scheduled movement dates.  In order to give the 
affected member(s) as much formal notification as possible, mobilization facilitators and ARCs 
should initiate a change request for an activation start date modification as immeidately after 
learning of the circumstances necessitating the change.  Refer to the AMP Business Rules for 
activation start date modification approval authority and submission timelines.   
(Add) 3.2.2.4.4.  Activation End Date Modification.  Reasons for a MOBORD activation end 
date modification include, but are not limited to, an extension or curtailment due a change in 
CCDR operational requirements, the addition/deletion of internal rotations, transportation delays, 
and the addition of earned MAJCOM/Field Command downtime and/or accrued leave. 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.4.1.  SecAF or delegee may approve an individual mobilization end date 
modification if an ARC member is extended due to the deletion or combination of an internal 
rotation, provided the affected member has not yet started their activation order and the new redeploy 
date or operational mission end date is not more than 30 days beyond the Secretary of Defense’s approved 
capability duration in the GFMAP.  An ARC member pending adverse administrative or punitive 
action may not be extended in theater beyond his or her scheduled TDY expiration date without 
approval from SAF/MR and USD(P&R)/SecDef.  For purposes of this paragraph, adverse 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
administrative actions include Letters of Reprimand, Admonishment and Counseling, or 
administrative demotions.  Punitive action for purposes of this paragraph includes ordering a 
member or continuing a member in pretrial confinement; trial by court-martial, preferral or 
referral of court-martial charges, and offer or imposition of Nonjudicial Punishment.”  Refer to 
the AMP Business Rules for activation end date modification approval authority and submission 
timelines.   
(Add) 3.2.2.4.4.2.  If a member affected by a curtailment desires to proceed with activation, is 
unable to be re-missioned/re-allocated to another similar requirement, and is incurring a 
hardship, the member may submit a hardship claim in accordance with DAFI 36-2619.  
(Add) 3.2.2.4.5.  Add Unit/UIC.  Reasons for adding a Unit/UIC to MOBORD include, but are 
not limited to, an increase in CCDR requirements that cannot be sourced from an originally 
tasked unit and a lack of qualified personnel in an originally tasked unit.  Requests to add a 
Unit/UIC to a MOBORD must include a clear justification as to why an originally tasked unit is 
unable to fulfill the requirement.  
(Add) 3.2.2.4.5.1.  Any time a Unit/UIC is added to a mobilization order after the baseline order 
is published, OSD(P&R) considers this a new mobilization and applies the same formal 
notification requirements – 60 days or more for RC units (defined as two or more individual RC 
members from the same unit) and 120 days for individual RC members.   
(Add) 3.2.2.4.5.2.  ARC members may elect to waive notification requirements in writing; 
however, they may not be compelled or coerced to do so.  Only the SecDef is authorized to 
waive the requirement for RC members to receive at least 30 days formal notification to prepare 
for activation.  Refer to the AMP Business Rules for Unit/UIC addition approval authority and 
submission timelines.   
(Add) 3.2.2.4.6.  Remove Unit/UIC.  Reasons for removing a Unit/UIC from a MOBORD 
include, but are not limited to, a reduction in CCDR requirements such that the mobilization of 
fewer units is required and a lack of qualified personnel in an originally tasked unit such that it is 
no longer the source.  If an ARC member is off-ramped due to reduction in CCDR requirements 
and the affected member desires to proceed with activation, is unable to be re-missioned/re-
allocated to another similar requirement, and is incurring a hardship, the member may be eligible 
to submit a hardship claim in accordance with AFI 36-2619. Refer to the AMP Business Rules 
for Unit/UIC removal approval authority and submission timelines.   
(Add) 3.2.2.4.7.  Member substitution (filler).  A substitution (filler) may be used to remove, 
defer, or exempt a member from a mobilization order and replace them with a substitute from 
within a unit listed on the same mobilization order approved by the Service Secretary under Title 
10 U.S.C., § 12302 and Title 10 U.S.C., § 12304b will be executed by the unit commanders 
provided: 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.7.1.  The replacement member received advance notification of impending 
mobilization; 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.7.2.  The replacement member receives delay-effective-date activation orders at 
least 30 days before the activation start date; and 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.7.3.  The replacement member has at least 12 months dwell. 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.7.4.  If all of the above conditions are not met, the substitution action will require 
SecDef approval, unless the replacement member elects to waive in writing the applicable dwell 
and/or notification requirements (T-0). 
(Add) 3.2.2.4.8.  Correction of administrative, typographical, or mathematical errors, including 
adding or removing other mobilization information, such as a PID, FTN, UTC, Operation, and/or 
Destination, when not associated with one of the change types described above.  If AF/A3OD is 
the suspected source of an administrative, typographical, or mathematical error, the mobilization 
facilitator should request that AF/A3OD review the applicable information to determine the 
source of the error.  If AF/A3OD determines that the mobilization facilitator submitted the 
correct information, but AF/A3OD published a MOBORD with incorrect information, AF/A3OD 
may publish a corrected MOBORD without requiring the mobilization facilitator to submit a 
MOBORD change request.  Refer to the AMP Business Rules for administrative correction 
approval authority and submission timelines.   
(Delete) 3.2.3. 
(Delete) 3.2.4. 
(Delete) 3.2.5. 
(Change) 3.3.  Mobilization Process Steps.  Designated mobilization facilitators, ARCs, HAF 
staff, and ARC units should refer to the AMP Business Rules for the most current AFMMS 
process guidance and timelines.  The AMP Business Rules are available at the Non-classified 
Internet Protocol Router (NIPR) AF/A3OD SharePoint site at 
https://org2.eis.af.mil/sites/12594/A3O/D/Mobilization/Forms/AllItems.aspx, via the SIPR 
AFMMS site under the “Documents” folder, and on the SIPR AF/A3OD SharePoint site at 
https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/afa3/O/D/Pages/Mobilization.aspx. 
(Delete) 3.3.1. Step 1 – Packaging and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) 3.3.2.1. 
(Delete) 3.3.2.2. 
(Change) 3.3.2.2.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force coordination must be obtained from 
AF/A3, AF/A1, AF/JA, SAF/GC, and, as applicable, SF/COO, the National Guard Bureau and/or 
Air Force Reserve Command. 
(Delete) 3.3.2.2.2. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
(Delete) 3.3.2.2.3. 
(Delete) 3.3.3. Step 3 – Publication and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) 3.4. Process Timeline and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) Table 3.1. Pre-planned and Rotational Baseline Meeting Air Force Timeline 
Standards. 
(Delete) Table 3.2. Substitution or Shift Meeting Air Force Timeline Standards. 
(Change) References 
(Add) Public Law 113-66 § 513, Limitations on cancellations of deployment of certain reserve 
component units and involuntary mobilizations of certain Reserves 
(Add) Title 10 U.S.C.§ 806, Judge advocates and legal officers 
(Add) Title 10 U.S.C.§ 9037, Judge Advocate General, Deputy Judge Advocate General; 
appointment; duties 
(Change) Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, August 2021 
(Add) DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 29 December 2010 
(Add) Secretary of Defense Directive-type Memorandum (DTM) 21-005 – “Deployment-to-
Dwell, Mobilization-to-Dwell Policy Revision,” 16 August 2021 
https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/DoD-Issuances/DTM/  
(Add) CJCSM 3122.01 Series, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES), 29 
September 2006 
(Add) CJCSM 3130.06C, Global Force Management Allocation Policies and Procedures, 07 
May 21 
(Change) DAFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 13 January 2021 
(Add) DAFI 51-101, The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s Corps (AFJAG) Operations, 
Accessions, and Professional Development, 20 June 2023  
(Add) DAFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 05 April 2018 
(Add) DAFMAN 36-2114, Management of the Air Force Reserve Individual Reserve (IR) and 
Full-time Support (FTS) Programs, 24 May 2021 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 17 April 2020 
(Change) AFI 36-2619, Active Duty Operational Support (ADOS)–Active Component (AC) 
Man-Day Program, 25 November 2019 
(Add) AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 24 August 2020 
(Add) AFI 38-101, Manpower and Organization, 29 August 2019 
(Add) AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty/Special Orders, 15 August 2019 
(Add) AFMAN 36-2136, Reserve Personnel Participation, 6 September 2019 
(Add) AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, 27 July 2016 
(Delete) AF-A3-5 Mobilization Business Rules, (13 May 2011) 
(Add) AF/A3OD ARC Mobilization Process (AMP) Business Rules 
 (Add) JP 3-28, Defense Support of Civil Authorities, 29 October 2018 
(Add) JP 4-05, Joint Mobilization Planning, 23 October 2018 
(Change) Adopted Form 
(Add) FEMA FORM 010-0-8 Mission Assignment (MA)  
(Add) AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour 
(Add) Abbreviations and Acronyms 
(Add) AC–Active Component 
(Add) ACS–Agile Combat Support 
(Add) ADOS–Active Duty for Operational Support 
(Add) AEF–Air and Space Expeditionary Force 
(Add) AF/A1–Manpower, Personnel, and Services 
(Add) AF/A3–Operations, Plans and Requirements 
(Add) AFMMS–Air Force Mobilization Management Site 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) AFRC–Air Force Reserve Command 
(Add) AMP–Air Reserve Component Mobilization Process 
(Add) ANG–Air National Guard 
(Add) ARC–Air Reserve Component 
(Add) AROWS–Air National Guard Reserve Order Writing System 
(Add) AROWS-R–Air Force Reserve Order Writing System 
(Add) CCDR–Combatant Commander 
(Add) CJCSM–Chariman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 
(Add) DAFI–Department of the Air Force Instruction 
(Add) DAFMAN– Department of the Air Force Manual 
(Add) DCAPES–Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments 
(Add) DRMD–Deployment Requirements Manning Document 
(Add) DSCA–Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
(Add) DoD–Department of Defense 
(Add) DoDD–Department of Defense Directive 
(Add) DoDI–Depart of Defense Instruction 
(Add) FEMA–Federal Emergency Management Agency 
(Add) FGC–Force Generation Center 
(Add) FMTS–Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System 
(Add) FTN–Force Tracking Number 
(Add) FTS–Full Time Support 
(Add) FY–Fiscal Year 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) GFM–Global Force Management 
(Add) GFMAP–Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
(Add) GFMIG–Global Force Management Implementation Guidance 
(Add) GSORTS–Global Status of Resources and Training System 
(Add) HAF–Headquarters Air Force 
(Add) IMA–Individual Mobilization Augmentee 
(Add) IR–Individual Reserve 
(Add) J-35–Joint Staff Regional Operations and Force Management Directorate 
(Add) JCRM–Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager 
(Add) JCS–Joint Chiefs of Staff 
(Add) JP–Joint Publication 
(Add) MA–Mission Assignment 
(Add) MAJCOM–Major Command 
(Add) MILPERS–Military Personnel  
(Add) MOBORD–Mobilization Order 
(Add) MPA–Military Personnel Appropriations 
(Add) NAF–Numbered Air Force 
(Add) NIPR–Non-classified Internet Protocol Router 
(Add) NGB–National Guard Bureau 
(Add) NGB/CF–Director, Air National Guard 
(Add) NM–Notification Matrix 
(Add) OSD(P&R)–Office of the Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness 
(Add) PAS–Personnel Accounting Symbol 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
(Add) PID–Plan Identification Number 
(Add) PIM–Pre-Trained Individual Manpower 
(Add) RCM–Rules for Court Martial 
(Add) RFA–Request for Assistance 
(Add) SAF/FM–Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller) 
(Add) SAF/GC–General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force 
(Add) SAF/MR–Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 
(Add) SDOB–Secretary of Defense Orders Book 
(Add) SecAF–Secretary of the Air Force 
(Add) SecDef–Secretary of Defense 
(Add) SIPR–Secure Internet Protocol Router 
(Add) STRATCOM–United States Strategic Command 
(Add) TJAG–The Judge Advocate General 
(Add) TDY–Temporary Duty 
(Add) UIC–Unit Identification Code 
(Add) USD(P&R)–Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness 
(Add) USSF–United States Space Force (formerly Air Force Space Command (AFSPC)) 
(Add) UTC–Unit Type Code 
(Add) VOCO–Verbal Orders of the Commander 
(Change) Terms  
(Add) Advance Notification–Advance notification may occur up to 24 months in advance of 
activation. It may encompass but is not limited to: an alert order, an official notification of 
sourcing message, ready mobilization pool list, verbal notification, or other verifiable 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
communication to an RC unit or member that they have been identified for a potential order to 
active duty. (Source: DoDI 1235.12). 
(Add) Air National Guard  Reserve Order Writing System (AROWS)/Air Force Reserve 
Order Writing System (AROWS-R)–The system that generates ARC Individual Mobilization 
Orders or Individual Activation Orders. (AF Form 938 for the Reserves and referred to as 
“AROWS orders” for the ANG).  
(Add) Air Reserve Component (ARC) Mobilization Process (AMP)–The Air Force 
mobilization process, incorporating changes approved by SAF/MR in 2019. 
(Add) Backfill–Reserve component units and individuals recalled to replace deploying active 
units and/or individuals, including deployed-in-place. 
(Add) Contingency–A situation requiring military operations in response to natural disasters, 
terrorists, subversives, or as otherwise directed by appropriate authority to protect U.S. interests. 
(Source: AFI 10-403). 
(Add) Contingency Operation–A military operation that is either designated by the Secretary of 
Defense as a contingency operation or becomes a contingency operation as a matter of law. 
(Source: DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms). 
(Add) Delayed-Effective-Date Order–An official document prescribing the order to active duty 
of an RC member or members on a specified date after the date of issuance of the order for a 
period of more than 30 days. Such an order may be either an individual mobilization order (AF 
Form 938/AROWS Order) or a unit mobilization order (MOBORD) provided it specifies an 
order authority, a start date, and the duration of the activation. (Source: Title 10, U.S.C.)  
(Change) Demobilization–The process necessary to release from active duty, or federal 
service, units and members who were ordered to active duty or called to federal service. 
(Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms) The process of 
transitioning a conflict or wartime military establishment and defense-based civilian economy to 
a peacetime configuration while maintaining national security and economic vitaility. (Source: 
CJSCM 3130.06C).  
(Change) Dwell–The period of time an individual is not mobilized.  This is the period of time a 
unit or individual is not mobilized to involuntary active duty pursuant to Title 10 U.S.C.§§ 
12301(a), 12302, 12304, 12304a, and 12304b and the reporting date for a subsequent tour of 
mobilization. (Source: GFMIG) (Dwell includes active duty performed in accordance with Title 
10 U.S.C. §§ 12301(b) or 12301(d) between such two periods of involuntary active duty.). 
(Add) Formal Notification–When an activation or mobilization request is approved and 
published in the Secretary of Defense Orders Book (SDOB) or Notification Matrix. (Source: 
DoDI 1235.12).  
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
(Add) Global Force Implementation Guidance (GFMIG)–The GFMIG aligns force 
assignment, apportionment, and allocation methodologies in support of the Defense Strategy 
Review and the Guidance for Employment of the Force, joint force availability requirements, 
and joint force assessments.  
(Add) Global Force Management (GFM)–Processes that align force assignment, 
apportionment, and allocation methodologies in support of strategic guidance. (Department of 
Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms). A process to align directed readiness, 
force assignment, allocation, apportionment, and assessment methodologies to support Joint 
Force requirements; present comprehensive visibility of the global availability and operational 
readiness of U.S. conventional military forces; globally source joint force requirements; and 
forces; globally source joint force requirements; and provide senior decision makers a vehicle to 
assess quickly and accurately the impact and risk of proposed allocation, assignment, and 
apportionment changes. (Source: CJCSM 3130.06C) The GFM Allocation Plan Base Order 
establishes a framework of force deployments in support of Combatant Command activities and 
is later adjusted, through modifications, based on global events and threats. 
(Add) Individual Mobilization Augmentee–An individual reservist attending drills who 
receives training and is preassigned to an Regular component organization, a Selective Service 
System, or a Federal Emergency Management Agency billet that must be filled on, or shortly 
after, mobilization. Also referred to as IMAs. IMAs support mobilization (including 
premobilization and/or post-mobilization) requirements, contingency operations, operations 
other than war, or other specialized or technical requirements.  
(Change) Late Package Justification–An explanation required detailing why a mobilization 
package did not meet Secretary of the Air Force or Secretary of Defense policy requirements 
and/or public law requirements. 
(Add) Military Personnel (MILPERS) Appropriations–Appropriations fund costs of salaries 
and other compensation for active and retired military personnel and reserve forces based on end 
strength. 
(Change) Mobilization–1. The process of assembling and organizing national resources to 
support national objectives in time of war or other emergencies. 2. The process by which the 
Armed Forces of the United States, or part of them, are brought to a state of readiness for war or 
other national emergency. Also called MOB. (JP 4-05)  For the purpose of this Air Force 
Instruction, the term mobilization applies to members involuntarily activated under various 
statutes. 
(Change) Mobilization Facilitator–Specific Major Commands/Field Commands designated to 
oversee all mobilization requests within a specified operational area of responsibility.  The five 
mobilization facilitators are:  Air Combat Command for conventional operations; Air Force 
Global Strike Command for strategic assurance and deterrence operations; Air Force Special 
Operations Command for special operations; United States Space Force for space operations; and 
Air Mobility Command for mobility operations. 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
(Add) Mobilization Order (MOBORD)–A written order to initiate mobilization, published by 
AF/A3OD after the decision has been approved by the SecDef, USD(P&R), SecAF, or designee. 
MOBORD dates should align with the corresponding RC solution in the GFMAP and include 
travel, pre-deployment training, leave, and other time associated with the mobilization.  
(Change) Mobilization-to-Dwell Ratio–The ratio of time a unit, detachment, or individual is 
mobilized to the time the unit, detachment, or individual is in dwell. (Source: GFMIG) The 
mobilization period is calculated from the date of mobilization to the date of demobilization. 
(Add) Pre-trained Individual Manpower (PIM)–Personnel with prior military training or 
experiences that are subject to recall to extended active duty in a mobilization. These members 
come from the Individual Ready Reserve, retired Reserve, and Standby Reserve. 
(Change) Secretary of Defense Orders Book (SDOB)–A classified brief to the Secretary of 
Defense in which the GFMAP is initially approved, modified, and mobilization requests are 
approved. 
(Change) Secretary of Defense Orders Book Briefer’s Notes–A classified document used to 
justify a mobilization package in which a member or unit has a mobilization-to-dwell ratio below 
1:4 or notification timelines are not met. 
(Add) Split Rotation–Service internal rotation within the Secretary of Defense’s approved 
deployment duration in the GFMAP.  Subject to approval of the supported combatant command 
and mobilization facilitator policy. 
(Delete) Substitution Request Memorandum–A commander-signed letter reporting the release 
circumstances (i.e., Deployment Availability code or non-coded justification) of an originally 
approved member and the submission of a replacement for approval. 
(Add) Unit Identification Code–A six-digit code that uniquely identifies a unit.  DCAPES uses 
the UIC to access the GSORTS and the Air Force-specific Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) 
files to extract the unit number, unit name, and current location. 
(Change) Unit Reconstitution–Actions taken to rapidy restore functionality to an acceptable 
level for a particular mission, operation, or contingency after severe degradation.  Those actions, 
including regeneration and reorganization, commanders plan and implement to restore units to a 
desired level of combat effectiveness commensurate with mission requirements and available 
resources. (DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms).  Unit-focused activity, for any 
time span up to 30 calendar days, dedicated to accounting for unit assigned members, equipment 
and supplies, and for stabilizing/replenishing equipment and supply levels commensurate with 
pre–deployment/pre-operation levels.  Unit reconstitution is generally accomplished upon the 
unit’s arrival at home base after completion of redeployment or operations.  Unit Reconstitution 
is a command prerogative and may be approved by the unit commander.  If commander-
approved for members to be mobilized, unit reconstitution days must be included on the 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
worksheet in the mobilization request and be authorized through the mobilization approval 
process.  Although unit reconstitution is restricted to unit-assigned members, this time period is 
not intended for the following member actions: completion of required medical evaluations, out–
processing, application for retention in the Regular component, application for retention on 
active duty for hardship, using accrued leave, approved Major Command/Field Command down 
time, or travel time. 
(Add) Unit Type Code (UTC)–A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting 
of five characters that uniquely identify a “type unit.” (CJCSM 3122.01 Series). A five character 
alphanumeric designator uniquely identifying each type unit in the Armed Forces. 
(Add) Verbal Orders of the Commander (VOCO)–Directs action without the requirement of a 
written order.  The Secretary may approve mobilization requests via VOCO in order to expedite 
the mobilization and deployment process.  It is utilized to begin the movement of forces and 
units via the standard process as expeditiously as possible.  AF/A3OD records all VOCO 
approvals, documents the VOCO decision for the record, and follows-up with written 
mobilization orders as soon as possible.  All VOCO force requests and sourcing solutions must 
be recorded as soon as practicable (See CJCSM 3130.06C, Enclosures F and H). 
(Delete) A2.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A2.3. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization Package Steps and accompanying 
subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A2.4. Shift Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A3.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A3.3. Extension Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A3.4. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A3.5. Shift Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A4.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A4.3. Extension Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A4.4. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A4.5. Shift Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs.  
(Add) A5.1.2.5. Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) is initiated through a formal 
request for assistance (RFA) or mission assignment process from civil authorities or qualifying 
entities, or mission assignment process and approved by the appropriate DoD official, or is 
authorized by the President or Secretary of Defense. (Source: JP 3-28.) All requests for DSCA 
DAFI10-402_DAFGM2025-01  
Guidance Changes 
 
shall be written, and shall include a commitment to reimburse the Department of Defense. 
(Source: DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support for Civil Authorities.) (T-0). Official FEMA requests 
for assistance are submitted via the use of the FEMA Form 010-0-8, Mission Assignment (MA), 
documenting the assistance required and including the funding citation.  
(Delete) A5.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A5.3. Extension Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A5.4. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A5.5. Shift Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs.  
(Add) A6.1.2.5.1. This authority only applies to members of a Reserve unit. Individual 
Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) cannot be mobilized under this authority. 
(Delete) A6.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A6.3. Extension Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A6.4. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A6.5. Shift Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A7.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A7.3. Extension Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs.  
(Delete) A7.4. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A7.5. Shift Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A8.2. Baseline Mobilization and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A8.3. Extension Mobilization Package and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Delete) A8.4. Substitution (Filler) Mobilization Package and accompanying subparagraphs. 
(Change) A9.5. Once the AF/A3OD receives the documentation, AF/A3OD will publish the 
Mobilization Order and distribute it to the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as 
applicable, the applicable mobilization facilitator, AF/A1, AF/JA, SAF/FM and SAF/GC 
(Pentagon staffing is not required.). 
(Delete) Attachment 10. 
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY 
OF THE AIR FORCE 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-402 
8 MARCH 2018 
Operations 
MOBILIZATION PLANNING 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
OPR: AF/A3OD 
Supersedes: 
AFI0-402, 1 May 2012 
Certified by: AF/A3O 
(Brig Gen B. Chance Saltzman) 
Pages: 112 
This instruction implements Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve 
Components (RC); and Air Force Policy Directive 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space 
Expeditionary Force (AEF).  This document provides mobilization process guidance and 
responsibilities regarding obtaining authority for the issuance of orders to active duty for the 
Guard and/or Reserve pursuant to Title 10 United States Code Sections (§§) 332; 333; 688; 
12301(a); 12302; 12304; 12304a; 12304b; and 12406; and in compliance with Public Law 110-
181 Section 515, Advance Notice to Members of Reserve Components of Deployment in Support 
of Contingency Operations and Public Law 111-84 Section 514, Limitation on Scheduling of 
Mobilization or Pre-mobilization Training for Reserve Units When Certain Suspension of 
Training is Likely.  This guidance applies to the Regular Air Force, the Air National Guard of the 
United States, the Air National Guard while in service of the United States (but not as a militia), 
and the United States Air Force Reserve.  Overarching Department of Defense guidance is 
stipulated within Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12 (establishes Secretary of Defense 
policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for ordering units and individuals of 
the Guard and/or Reserve to active duty to support the national defense across the full spectrum 
of military operations, including sustained operational missions, emergent contingency 
operations, and service during national emergencies or in time of war).  Joint Publication 4-05, 
Joint Mobilization Planning, establishes objectives and further defines responsibilities of the 
Joint Staff and Services.  This Air Force instruction represents general guidance; legal counsel 
should be sought to resolve ambiguities.  Exception to this policy must be approved by AF/A3.  
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a 
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See Air Force 
Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities 
2 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to 
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication Office of 
Primary Responsibility for non-tiered compliance items.  This Air Force Instruction may be 
supplemented by Major Commands and the Guard, but all supplements must be routed to 
Headquarters United States Air Force Air Force War Planning and Policy Division for 
coordination prior to certification and approval.  Supplements must follow guidance outlined in 
Air Force Instruction 33-360.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in 
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of 
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule in the 
Air Force Records Information Management System.  Refer recommended changes and 
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the Air Force Form 
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Air Force Form 847 should be routed through 
appropriate channels to Headquarters United States Air Force AF/A3OD, 1480 Air Force 
Pentagon, Washington, District of Columbia 20330-1480; usaf.pentagon.af-a3.mbx.a5xw-
workflow@mail.mil; (703) 695-9060. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Department of 
Defense Instruction 1235.12 was revised (to include incorporating content from the cancelled 
Department of Defense Doctrine 1235.10) and published.  Major changes to this instruction 
include roles and responsibilities, the additional statute Title 10 United States Code sections, 
implementation of Air Force Instruction 33-360, and a refined focus on specifically the 
mobilization process.  This update no longer includes a chapter on Pretrained Individual 
Manpower programs.  Air Force Instruction 36-2633, The Air Force Reserve Pretrained 
Individual Manpower Programs – Management and Utilization (on Pretrained Individual 
Manpower and PUSH/PULL), and Air Force Instruction 36-2254, Volume 1, Reserve Personnel 
Participation (on screening Ready Reserve) set Pretrained Individual Manpower policy.  
Components of the Pretrained Individual Manpower (Individual Ready Reserve and retirees) 
continue to be incorporated into this instruction.  Guidance on activation is also available in Air 
Force Instruction 36-2619, Military Personnel Appropriation Manday Program.  The sourcing 
term force provider has been removed from this instruction.  The mobilization-specific term 
mobilization facilitator is defined and used in this revision of the instruction. 
 
Chapter 1— ACCESSING THE RESERVE COMPONENT 
 
6 
1.1. 
 Mobilization Purpose. .............................................................................................  
6 
1.2. 
 Types of Mobilization Requirements. .....................................................................  
6 
1.3. 
 Pre-requisites to Air Reserve Component Mobilization. ........................................  
6 
1.4. 
 Air Force Standards. ...............................................................................................  
8 
1.5. 
 Types of Mobilization Authority. ...........................................................................  
10 
1.6. 
 Voluntary Activation Authority. .............................................................................  
11 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
3 
1.7. 
 Changes in Mobilization or Activation Authority. .................................................  
11 
Chapter 2— ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
13 
2.1. 
 Overview. ................................................................................................................  
13 
2.2. 
 President of the United States. ................................................................................  
13 
2.3. 
 Secretary of Defense. ..............................................................................................  
13 
2.4. 
 Office of the Secretary of Defense. .........................................................................  
13 
2.5. 
 Joint Staff Directorate for Logistics (JS/J4). ...........................................................  
14 
2.6. 
 Secretary of the Air Force. ......................................................................................  
14 
2.7. 
 Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). ...........................  
15 
2.8. 
 Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
(SAF/FM).................................................................................................................  
15 
2.9. 
 General Counsel of the Air Force (SAF/GC). ........................................................  
15 
2.10. 
 Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG). ........................................  
16 
2.11. 
 Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
(SAF/MR). ...............................................................................................................  
16 
2.12. 
 Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA). ..............................  
16 
2.13. 
 Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1). ....................  
16 
2.14. 
 Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2). ..  
17 
2.15. 
 Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3)............................................................  
17 
2.16. 
 Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4). ......  
18 
2.17. 
 Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). ....  
19 
2.18. 
 Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Requirements (AF/A5/8). ...................  
19 
2.19. 
 Director for Studies, Analyses and Assessments (AF/A9). ....................................  
19 
2.20. 
 Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10)....  
19 
2.21. 
 Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC). ..................................................................................  
19 
2.22. 
 Air Force Historian (AF/HO)..................................................................................  
20 
2.23. 
 The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA). ...................................................................  
20 
2.24. 
 Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE). .....................................................................  
20 
2.25. 
 Surgeon General (AF/SG).......................................................................................  
20 
4 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.26. 
 Commander, Air Combat Command. .....................................................................  
21 
2.27. 
 Commander, Air Force Special Operations Command. .........................................  
22 
2.28. 
 Commander, Air Mobility Command. ....................................................................  
24 
2.29. 
 Commander, Air Education and Training Command. ............................................  
26 
2.30. 
 Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command. ..................................................  
26 
2.31. 
 Commander, Air Force Materiel Command. ..........................................................  
28 
2.32. 
 Commander, Air Force Space Command. ..............................................................  
28 
2.33. 
 Commander, Pacific Air Forces. .............................................................................  
29 
2.34. 
 Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe/Commander, United States 
Forces Africa. ...........................................................................................................  
30 
2.35. 
 Commander, Air Force Reserve Command. ...........................................................  
30 
2.36. 
 Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF). ...............................................................  
32 
Chapter 3— MOBILIZATION PROCESS 
 
35 
3.1. 
 Prerequisites for Mobilization. ...............................................................................  
35 
3.2. 
 Types of Mobilization Packages. ............................................................................  
35 
3.3. 
 Mobilization Steps.   ...............................................................................................  
35 
3.4. 
 Process Timeline.   ..................................................................................................  
37 
Table 3.1. 
 Pre-planned and Rotational Baseline Meeting Air Force Timeline Standards. ......  
38 
Table 3.2. 
 Substitution or Shift Meeting Air Force Timeline Standards. ................................  
41 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
43 
Attachment 2— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12301(A) (FULL AND TOTAL 
MOBILIZATION) 
 
48 
Attachment 3— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12302 (PARTIAL 
MOBILIZATION) 
 
55 
Attachment 4— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12304 (PRESIDENTIAL 
RESERVE CALL-UP) 
 
64 
Attachment 5— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12304A (DISASTER AND 
EMERGENCY RESPONSE) 
 
73 
Attachment 6— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12304B (PREPLANNED MISSION 
SUPPORT) 
 
82 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
5 
Attachment 7— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12406 (NATIONAL GUARD IN 
FEDERAL SERVICE) 
 
91 
Attachment 8— TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 332 (USE OF MILITIA AND 
ARMED FORCES TO ENFORCE FEDERAL AUTHORITY); AND 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 333 (INTERFERENCE WITH 
STATE AND FEDERAL LAW) 
 
100 
Attachment 9— VERBAL ORDERS OF THE COMMANDER 
 
107 
Attachment 10— ADMINISTRATIVE Changes 
 
108 
Attachment 11— TYPES OF MOBILIZATION AUTHORITY 
 
109 
 
 
 
6 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Chapter 1 
ACCESSING THE RESERVE COMPONENT 
1.1.  Mobilization Purpose. 
1.1.1.  The Air Force utilizes Active Component, Guard, and Reserve forces to meet the 
needs of the United States security and disaster response efforts.  Active component forces 
are readily available for immediate employment.  The decision to activate non-active 
component forces is made only after determining it is both judicious and prudent to do so.  In 
order to access Guard and/or Reserve forces, the Air Force must adhere to specific laws and 
guidance.  Accession may consist of reserve component members being mobilized or 
volunteering for active duty to fulfill a federal mission in a federal status. 
1.1.2.  Mobilization provides political, economic, military, and legal options for 
consideration by the President throughout the range of military operations.  Authority to 
activate Guard and/or Reserve forces stems from a variety of statutes.  Mobilization actions 
are governed by statutes; Congressional action; Executive Orders; and Federal, Department 
of Defense, and Service policies.  When planning for military options, planners should 
include mobilization authorities in the Operations Plan. 
1.1.3.  For the purpose of this instruction, the term mobilization applies to members 
involuntarily activated under the mobilization statutes referenced in this instruction.  Specific 
Major Commands are designated to oversee all mobilization requests within a specified 
operational area of responsibility.  The five mobilization facilitators are:  Air Combat 
Command for conventional operations; Air Force Global Strike Command for nuclear 
operations; Air Force Special Operations Command for special operations; Air Force Space 
Command for cyber and space operations; and Air Mobility Command for mobility 
operations. 
1.2.  Types of Mobilization Requirements. 
1.2.1.  Emergent. 
1.2.1.1.  A requirement not identified in the Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
(i.e., submitted after the Global Force Management Allocation Plan baseline approval) 
and that cannot be met using available assigned forces or forces already allocated. 
1.2.1.2.  A Global Force Management Allocation Plan requirement with an approved 
modification. 
1.2.2.  Preplanned  .  A Global Force Management Allocation Plan requirement submitted in 
the budget materials approximately two years prior to the start of the execution Fiscal Year. 
1.2.3.  Rotational  .  A Global Force Management Allocation Plan requirement needed on a 
recurring basis. 
1.3.  Pre-requisites to Air Reserve Component Mobilization. 
1.3.1.  A valid and sourced need is recorded in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager (a 
web-based Global Force Management tool that increases the efficiency of the global force 
management process by providing senior Department of Defense decision makers with a 
consolidated database of joint forces, capabilities, and the ability to identify force or 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
7 
capability requirements in support of military operations) or electronic Fourth Estate 
Manpower Tracking System (a secure, web-based system for the management of joint 
manpower and personnel) and contained in the Global Force Management Allocation Plan or 
a Service-directed and Global Force Management Data Initiative-compliant tool; and is the 
basis for any mobilization request. 
1.3.2.  The approved Global Force Management Allocation Plan identifies and directs 
validated Air Force requirements.  Any modification must be approved by the Secretary of 
Defense in the Secretary of Defense Orders Book. 
1.3.3.  Air Force requirements were sourced in coordination with all impacted Major 
Commands. 
1.3.4.  A Guard or Reserve member will only be mobilized in accordance with legal 
authorities specified in Title 10 United States Code. 
1.3.5.  Compliance with policies and procedures outlined in the opening paragraph: 
1.3.5.1.  Mobilization of Guard and/or Reserve forces will be consistent with the time 
period limitations set forth in the relevant statute(s) and implementing guidance. 
1.3.5.2.  Combatant Commanders shall ensure Guard and Reserve units and individuals 
are returned to home station in sufficient time to execute accrued leave and accomplish 
release from active duty processing. 
1.3.5.3.  Mobilized units and members of the reserve component involuntarily ordered to 
active duty will be kept on active duty no longer than operationally necessary. 
1.3.5.4.  Avoid scheduling mobilization or pre-mobilization training for reservists if a 
suspension of training of five days or more is anticipated to occur at a temporary duty 
location during any portion of such mobilization or pre-mobilization training. 
1.3.5.5.  The Department of Defense standard for the period between mobilization 
approval and the activation date is at least 180 days in support of rotational and pre-
planned requirements; at least 120 days in support of standard emergent requirements; 
and a minimum of 30 days in support of time-critical emergent requirements. 
1.3.5.6.  Secretary of Defense approval is required for specific mobilizations: 
1.3.5.6.1.  Mobilization under Title 10 United States Code §12304a for greater than 
30 days; 
1.3.5.6.2.  A mobilization extension when the extension duration is greater than 30 
days; 
1.3.5.6.3.  A mobilization extension when the approval to original redeployment/end 
operational mission period is less than 30 days; 
1.3.5.6.4.  A mobilization change when the start date is revised greater than 30 days; 
and 
1.3.5.6.5.  A filler when the member is from a different unit than the replaced 
member. 
8 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
1.3.5.7.  Unless the member has waived notification and/or dwell, Secretary of Defense 
approval is required for certain mobilizations: 
1.3.5.7.1.  Routine, pre-planned, and standard emergent mobilizations when the 
approval to activation period is less than 120 days; 
1.3.5.7.2.  Time-critical emergent mobilizations when the approval to activation 
period is less than 30 days; 
1.3.5.7.3.  Mobilization when a member’s mobilization-to-dwell ratio is less than 1:4; 
and 
1.3.5.7.4.  Mobilization start date change when the approval to activation (earliest of 
original/revised) period is less than 45 days. 
1.3.5.8.  Coordination and notification of alert/mobilization requests occurs through the 
weekly Joint Mobilization Meeting, the Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix, or the 
Secretary of Defense Orders Book. 
1.3.5.9.  The Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness, or Secretary of the Air Force may approve alert/mobilization requests, 
depending on the nature of the request. 
1.3.5.10.  Secretary of the Air Force is authorized to release mobilization orders after 
Secretary of Defense approval or notification. 
1.3.6.  A member is notified of pending activation by the unit of assignment when the 
member is selected to fill a mobilization requirement.  (For documentation purposes, the date 
is recorded on the mobilization worksheet in the “Advance Notification” column.). 
1.4.  Air Force Standards. 
1.4.1.  A mobilization-to-dwell ratio of 1:5 or better is the standard for all Guard and Reserve 
members. 
1.4.2.  The mobilization period will include pre-deployment administrative actions, travel, 
deployment, reconstitution time, earned leave, Major Command downtime or post-
deployment administrative actions if downtime is not authorized, and administrative absence 
days (accrued under Post-Deployment/Mobilization Respite Absence in accordance with Air 
Force Instruction 36-3003, Military Leave Program).  Deployment specific pre-deployment 
training may be included in the mobilization period or, with mobilization facilitator approval, 
conducted under Title 10 United States Code § 12301(d) at the unit’s discretion provided the 
mandays are available. 
1.4.3.  Deployment-specific training includes training stipulated within the Line Remarks 
section of the Time Phased Force Deployment Data, as required by supported command 
reporting instructions and Air Force Instruction 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.  
Training not specified within the line remarks, and/or post deployment reconstitution time, 
requires advanced approval via the Headquarters Air Force Mobilization Staffing Process. 
1.4.4.  Time-in-theater tour lengths for mobilized Guard and Reserve members shall be 
consistent with the deployment length for active component members.  Alternative rotational 
constructs require pre-approval by AF/A3. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
9 
1.4.5.  Make every effort to reduce or eliminate the use of unnecessary mobilization days to 
promote efficient utilization of limited mobilization days and human resources, thereby 
increasing Guard and Reserve ability to support future mobilization requirements. 
1.4.6.  Mobilization facilitators monitor the Global Force Management Allocation Plan and 
Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if any unexecuted/unused 
authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for operational or administrative 
requirements. 
1.4.6.1.  Send all operational change requests to AF/A3OD no less than 45 days prior to 
the Guard or Reserve member’s scheduled redeployment date.  Shorter timelines are 
considered on a case-by-case basis. 
1.4.6.2.  Send all administrative change requests to AF/A3OD no less than 30 days prior 
to the Guard or Reserve member’s scheduled mobilization completion date.  Shorter 
timelines are considered on a case-by-case basis. 
1.4.7.  Prepare and process hardship requests in accordance with Air Force Instruction 36-
2619.  Continuations or extensions in a mobilized status are not authorized.  Retention on 
active duty on Military Personnel Appropriation mandays are not to exceed the original 
mobilization duration.  For additional information consult Air Force Instruction 36-2619 and 
contact AF/A1. 
1.4.8.  Any individual being mobilized with less than a 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell ratio 
requires endorsed justification from the first General Officer or higher in the chain of 
command.  Verify in the General Officer endorsement that the applicable unit considered 
other qualified individuals with at least a 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell ratio, and the applicable 
unit has neither a qualified individual who has never mobilized nor a qualified volunteer.  
The General Officer or higher in the chain of command endorsed justification shall be 
included as a tab in the mobilization request submitted to AF/A3OD.  Note: A member of the 
Senior Executive Service in the counterpart civilian leadership chain may provide the 
endorsement. 
1.4.9.  Active component members who transfer to the Guard or Reserve assume a 1:5 
mobilization-to-dwell ratio based on their last deployment return date. 
1.4.10.  Members being considered for a subsequent mobilization should have at least 12-
months of dwell.  Members having less than 12-months of dwell are excluded from 
consideration unless a waiver letter acknowledging the shortfall is submitted. 
1.4.11.  Submit Guard or Reserve member mobilization substitution requests to AF/A3OD no 
later than 50 days prior to the mobilization start date.  The mobilization facilitator will 
provide in writing why a Guard or Reserve member activated under Title 10 United States 
Code § 12301(d) or an active component solution is not feasible and what is the risk to the 
mission if the position is unfilled.  All substitution requests under 50 days will be considered 
on a case by case basis. 
1.4.12.  The approval of a preplanned or rotational mobilization authorization shall occur no 
later than 210 days prior to the mobilization date to afford the Guard and/or Reserve 
members the opportunity to receive delay-effective-date activation orders at least 180 days 
prior to the mobilization start date. 
10 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
1.4.12.1.  AF/A3OD shall inform the Air Force approval authority of any mobilization 
package that fails to meet the 210 day requirement. 
1.4.12.2.  The mobilization facilitator will mitigate staffing timing issues by splitting a 
request and submitting it in two parts (e.g., as baseline and change one or as a pair of 
consecutive changes) to ensure the maximum number of members meet the 210 day 
requirement.  Every effort will be made to ensure the members who do not meet the 210 
day requirement meet the Secretary of Defense’s notification requirement. 
1.4.13.  Delayed-effective-date activation orders in support of an approved rotational or 
preplanned operation shall be provided to the member at least 180 days prior to the 
mobilization start date, or no later than 30 days after transmission of the mobilization order 
from AF/A3OD, whichever is later. 
1.4.14.  Expedite the mobilization request for emergent requirements in order to provide the 
Guard or Reserve member with delayed-effective-date activation orders as soon as possible. 
1.4.15.  Commanders are required to produce activation orders for individuals upon receipt of 
the mobilization order. (T-0) 
1.4.16.  To the extent possible, and to maximize unit cohesiveness, mobilize entire Unit Type 
Codes and/or mission sets assigned to the same Unit Identification Code. 
1.4.17.  Traditional unit reservists should be considered for mobilization prior to an 
Individual Mobilization Augmentee unless the support is for the Individual Mobilization 
Augmentee’s unit of assignment.  Individual Mobilization Augmentees are primarily 
activated to support their unit of assignment.  Individual Mobilization Augmentee support 
outside the unit of assignment must be approved in accordance with Air Force Instruction 10-
401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution. 
1.4.18.  Accomplish every mobilization step discussed in section 3.2 when mobilizing the 
Guard or Reserve.  Time or error may prevent written activation orders from being published 
in advance of travel.  In these situations verbal orders may be authorized.  The mobilization 
steps shall be accomplished after the verbal orders are issued.  Verbal orders are confirmed 
(in writing) as soon as possible.  Refer to Attachment 9 and Air Force Instruction 65-103. 
1.4.19.  Once the authorized activation period of an individual has expired, no change request 
may be submitted to AF/A3OD to alter the authorization. 
1.4.20.  Air components ensure mobilized personnel are released from operational 
commitments and returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all activities 
within the period approved in the mobilization authorization (see 1.4.2. for activities included 
in a mobilization time period).  If necessary, the air component must initiate an extension 
request and coordinate with the applicable mobilization facilitator and Air Reserve 
Component to obtain an authorized extension to retain members beyond the approved 
redeployment date. 
1.5.  Types of Mobilization Authority.  There are a total of ten mobilization authorities.  The 
authorities differ based on: approval authority, the situation in which Guard and/or Reserve 
forces can be mobilized, eligible personnel, the duration of the mobilization, and the number of 
personnel authorized to be mobilized.  Attachment 11 depicts the major differences between 
these mobilization authorities. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
11 
1.5.1.  Title 10 United States Code § 12301(a) (Full Mobilization and Total 
Mobilization).  Refer to Attachment 2 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.2.  Title 10 United States Code § 12301(b) (Annual Tour).   Refer to Air Force 
Instruction 36-2254, Volume 1. 
1.5.3.  Title 10 United States Code § 12302 (Partial Mobilization).  Refer to Attachment 3 
for processes and procedures. 
1.5.4.  Title 10 United States Code § 12304 (Presidential Reserve Call-Up).   Refer to 
Attachment 4 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.5.  Title 10 United States Code § 12304a (Disaster and Emergency Response).  Refer 
to Attachment 5 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.6.  Title 10 United States Code § 12304b (Preplanned Mission Support).  Refer to 
Attachment 6 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.7.  Title 10 United States Code § 12406 (National Guard in Federal Service).   Refer 
to Attachment 7 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.8.  Title 10 United States Code § 332 (Use of Militia and Armed Forces to Enforce 
Federal Authority).  Refer to Attachment 8 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.9.  Title 10 United States Code § 333 (Interference with State and Federal 
Law).  Refer to Attachment 8 for processes and procedures. 
1.5.10.  Title 10 United States Code § 688 (Retired Airmen).   Refer to Air Force 
Instruction 36-3203, Service Retirements. 
1.6.  Voluntary Activation Authority. 
1.6.1.  Title 10 United States Code § 12301(d) (Volunteerism).  Until mobilization 
authority has been approved, volunteerism is the only means for bringing Guard and Reserve 
forces on active duty.  Volunteers are members of the Selected Reserve activated under Title 
10 United States Code § 12301(d).  Consent of the respective Governor is required for the 
voluntary activation of Guardsmen. (Refer to Air Force Instruction 36-2619) 
1.7.  Changes in Mobilization or Activation Authority. 
1.7.1.  Involuntary to Voluntary.  Upon being notified of a mobilization and with the 
approval of the applicable mobilization facilitator, a Guard or Reserve member has the option 
to change the authority cited on the member’s activation orders to Title 10 United States 
Code § 12301(d) at activation.  When this occurs, a change to the approved mobilization 
authorization must be requested by the mobilization facilitator and processed by AF/A3OD.  
The change request must include a version of the approved mobilization order with track 
changes depicting the revision(s) requested.  The voluntary activation orders length must be 
approved by the applicable mobilization facilitator. 
1.7.2.  Involuntary to Involuntary.   Situations might dictate the need for a mobilization to 
convert to a different mobilization authority.  When this occurs, AF/A3OD will obtain an 
updated mobilization authorization approval for the conversion. 
 
 
12 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
1.7.3.  Legal, Captive, and Medical.   A member ordered to active duty under a 
mobilization authority statute whose status changes due to medical, legal or other situations 
rendering the member unfit to perform duty under the mobilization section should have 
his/her activation orders modified to reflect the proper authority (e.g., Title 10 United States 
Code §§ 12301(h), 12301(d), or 12322 for medical reasons; Title 10 United States Code § 
12301(g) for captive status; Title 10 United States Code § 802 for legal reasons, etc.) and to 
reflect the member is no longer serving under the provisions of the original statute. 
 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
13 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  Overview.  Offices listed outside the Air Force are referenced for informational purposes 
only.  The data is extracted from Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12.  Unless 
specifically noted, all Air Force roles listed in Chapter Two are delegable. 
2.2.  President of the United States.  The President directs the nation’s military, including 
mobilization. 
2.3.  Secretary of Defense. 
2.3.1.  The Secretary of Defense issues mobilization guidance and policy to the Joint Staff, 
Military Departments, and Defense agencies. 
2.3.2.  The Secretary of Defense approves the Air Force policies and procedures for Title 10 
United States Code § 12304b. 
2.3.3.  The Secretary of Defense exercises involuntary recall authority under Title 10 United 
States Code §§ 12304a and 688.  In addition to those statutes, the Secretary of Defense, when 
authorized, may approve involuntary recall authority under Title 10 United States Code §§ 
332, 333, 12301(a), 12302, 12304, and 12406. 
2.3.4.  The Secretary of Defense signs the Secretary of Defense Orders Book to approve 
mobilizations that do not meet the approval criteria for Under Secretary of Defense 
(Personnel and Readiness) or Secretary of the Air Force. 
2.3.5.  The Secretary of Defense reserves the right to override Secretary of the Air Force 
approved mobilizations when reviewing the Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix. 
2.4.  Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
2.4.1.  Office of the Secretary of Defense develops implementation guidance for issue by the 
Secretary of Defense or designated representative to the Joint Staff, Military Departments, 
and Defense agencies. 
2.4.2.  Office of the Secretary of Defense advises the Secretary of Defense on all reserve 
component matters presented in the Secretary of Defense Orders Book and Secretary of 
Defense Notification Matrix. 
2.4.3.  Office of the Secretary of Defense chairs weekly Joint Mobilization Meeting. 
2.4.4.  Office of the Secretary of Defense assembles cost data and compiles reports on the 
cost of military operations, as required by law. 
2.4.5.  Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness) is the office responsible for 
ensuring these tasks are accomplished and is the delegated approving authority for the 
weekly Secretary of Defense notification matrix containing mobilization requests. 
2.4.6.  Office of the Secretary of Defense receives and processes the mobilization request for 
Secretary of Defense notification. 
 
 
14 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.5.  Joint Staff Directorate for Logistics (JS/J4). 
2.5.1.  The JS/J4 receives and processes the mobilization request for Secretary of Defense 
approval. 
2.5.2.  JS/J4 attends the Office of the Secretary of Defense weekly Joint Mobilization 
Meeting. 
2.6.  Secretary of the Air Force. 
2.6.1.  The Secretary of the Air Force issues mobilization guidance and policy to the 
Department of the Air Force. 
2.6.2.  The Secretary of the Air Force may approve mobilization requests as specified within 
Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12 and may delegate this authority no lower than a 
civilian presidential appointee who is confirmed by the Senate.  Secretary of the Air Force 
mobilization approval authority requires the following criteria to be met: 
2.6.2.1.  The mobilizations are of conventional/special operations forces. 
2.6.2.2.  The identified Reserve Component members elected to waive applicable 
notification and/or dwell requirements (minimum or ratio). 
2.6.2.3.  The member’s mobilization-to-dwell ratio is greater than or equal to 1:4 when 
mobilization-to-dwell is applicable to the activation authority. 
2.6.2.4.  A baseline rotational, pre-planned, or standard emergent mobilization has 120 
days or more between the mobilization approval and the activation date. 
2.6.2.5.  A time-critical emergent mobilization has 30 days or more between the 
mobilization approval and the activation date 
2.6.2.6.  Same-unit filler (replacement for a previously authorized member) has no less 
than 30 days between approval and activation and all other criteria for Service Secretary 
approval was met. 
2.6.2.7.  The individual mobilization authorization for emergent requirements and special 
capabilities has no less than 30 days’ notification. 
2.6.2.8.  Mobilization is under Title 10 United States Code § 12304a for a duration of 30 
days or less. 
2.6.2.9.  Extension for a duration up to 30 days beyond the approved capability duration 
in the Global Force Management Allocation Plan of an approved mobilization if 
extension approval is 30 days or more prior to the original redeployment/end of 
operational mission date and the new duration will be within the legal constraints of the 
statute. 
2.6.2.10.  An approved mobilization authority activation start date change is of 30 days or 
less and the approval is 45 days or more prior to the activation date or written member 
consent is provided. 
2.6.3.  Secretary of the Air Force provides coordination on mobilization requests that require 
Secretary of Defense approval. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
15 
2.6.4.  Secretary of the Air Force may provide documented guidance within an approved 
mobilization authorization directing AF/A3OD to process on Secretary of the Air Force’s 
behalf administrative changes to previously approved mobilization orders (see paragraph 
2.15.3.4.). 
2.7.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). 
2.7.1.  SAF/AQ coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.7.2.  SAF/AQ coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.7.3.  SAF/AQ may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a civil 
service General Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, SAF/AQ must provide a delegation 
letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.7.4.  SAF/AQ obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.8.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
(SAF/FM). 
2.8.1.  SAF/FM is responsible for all matters pertaining to financial oversight and budgetary 
control of all Air Force appropriations and assigned funds. 
2.8.2.  SAF/FM coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.8.3.  SAF/FM coordinates on all Air Force mobilization packages to ensure funds are 
available and properly allocated for the proposed mobilization. 
2.8.4.  SAF/FM coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.8.5.  SAF/FM may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15. If a delegation is used, SAF/FM must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.8.6.  SAF/FM will ensure the funding matches the new authority when an Air Reserve 
Component member transfers authority. 
2.8.7.  SAF/FM obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.9.  General Counsel of the Air Force (SAF/GC). 
2.9.1.  SAF/GC provides advice in accordance with applicable statutes on any legal subject 
and on other matters as directed by the Secretary of the Air Force. 
2.9.2.  SAF/GC coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.9.3.  SAF/GC coordinates on all Air Force mobilization packages to ensure compliance 
with all statutory requirements for the proposed mobilization. 
2.9.4.  SAF/GC may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, SAF/GC must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.9.5.  SAF/GC obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
16 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.10.  Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG). 
2.10.1.  SAF/IG coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.10.2.  SAF/IG obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure 
that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.11.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR). 
2.11.1.  SAF/MR may be delegated as the Air Force mobilization approval authority.  This 
delegation shall only occur if the sitting SAF/MR is a presidential appointee confirmed by 
the Senate.  This authority may not be further delegated. 
2.11.2.  When delegated mobilization approval authority, SAF/MR, in coordination with 
Office of the Secretary of Defense staff, may provide guidance as contingency and policy 
changes necessitate. 
2.11.3.  When delegated mobilization approval authority, SAF/MR may provide documented 
guidance within an approved mobilization authorization directing AF/A3OD to process on 
SAF/MR’s behalf administrative changes to previously approved mobilization orders (see 
paragraph 3.2.5). 
2.11.4.  SAF/MR obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure 
that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.11.5.  SAF/MR will provide Air Force Reserve Command and the Guard with a template to 
use in reporting timeliness of orders issuance. 
2.11.6.  SAF/MR will prepare and submit a quarterly report on Title 10 United States Code § 
12304b utilization in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12. 
2.12.  Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA). 
2.12.1.  SAF/PA coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.12.2.  SAF/PA coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.12.3.  SAF/PA may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, SAF/PA must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.12.4.  SAF/PA obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure 
that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.13.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1). 
2.13.1.  AF/A1 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.13.2.  AF/A1 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization packages to identify potential 
personnel related issues such as Deployment Availability codes, dwell violation waivers, and 
retainability for the proposed mobilization. 
2.13.3.  AF/A1 may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/A1 must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.13.4.  AF/A1 coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
17 
2.13.5.  AF/A1 develops personnel plans, guidance, and procedures relating to 
implementation of volunteerism, call up, activation, sustainment, and deactivation authorities 
for the utilization of Guard, Reserve, retirees, and active component personnel, as applicable. 
2.13.6.  AF/A1 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.13.7.  AF/A1 will process and approve manday requests when members change authorities 
due to medical, legal or administrative requirements. 
2.13.8.  AF/A1 will manage manday authorizations based on all approved mobilization 
packages. 
2.14.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2). 
2.14.1.  AF/A2 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.14.2.  AF/A2 coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.14.3.  AF/A2 may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/A2 must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.14.4.  AF/A2 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.15.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3). 
2.15.1.  AF/A3 is responsible for providing Air Force mobilization policy and 
implementation guidance. 
2.15.2.  AF/A3 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization packages. 
2.15.3.  AF/A3, through the Air Force War Planning and Policy Division (AF/A3OD), 
manages the Air Force mobilization program and ensures this program is congruent with 
Office of the Secretary of Defense policy and law. 
2.15.3.1.  AF/A3OD is the primary Air Staff agent responsible for interpreting and 
disseminating mobilization policy guidance.  AF/A3OD will provide Air Force guidance 
on mobilization policy, procedures, mobilization package requirements, and procedures 
for exceptions resulting from changing mobilization requirements.  AF/A3OD will 
review subordinate level guidance to ensure continuity and accuracy. 
2.15.3.2.  AF/A3OD creates; coordinates with the mobilization facilitators, Guard, and 
Air Force Reserve Command; and distributes the templates used in the mobilization 
process. 
2.15.3.3.  AF/A3OD receives, reviews, and staffs all mobilization requests for Secretary 
of the Air Force and/or Secretary of Defense approval. 
2.15.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD creates and submits the Secretary of Defense Service Request 
to the Secretary of Defense’s Notification Matrix for all mobilization packages 
approved at the Air Force level. 
18 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.15.3.3.2.  AF/A3OD creates and submits the Secretary of Defense Service Request 
and the Secretary of Defense Orders Book Briefer’s Notes to the Secretary of Defense 
Orders Book for all mobilization packages approved by the Secretary of Defense. 
2.15.3.4.  AF/A3OD is authorized to process on Secretary of the Air Force’s behalf 
administrative changes to previously approved mobilization orders in accordance with the 
approving authority’s documented guidance in a previously approved mobilization 
authorization. 
2.15.3.5.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes each approved mobilization order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s) (i.e., command code documented in the 
mobilization worksheet, authorization, and order), AF/A1, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC. 
2.15.3.6.  AF/A3OD represents AF/A3 at the weekly Office of the Secretary of Defense 
Joint Mobilization Meeting. 
2.15.3.7.  AF/A3OD represents the Air Force during Joint Staff’s Secretary of Defense 
Orders Book pre-brief meetings when requested. 
2.15.3.8.  AF/A3OD provides AF/A1 approved mobilization data to facilitate AF/A1’s 
ability to document the mobilization in manday accounting software. 
2.15.3.9.  AF/A3OD serves as the Air Force repository for mobilization packages and 
responds to requests for information concerning these packages. It will maintain a 
database storing electronic data for mobilization packages. 
2.15.3.10.  AF/A3OD creates materials used to explain the mobilization process and 
when requested provides training to key organizations. 
2.15.3.11.  AF/A3OD coordinates on all Air Force policy and/or regulation that impacts 
the mobilization process to ensure consistency with previously approved mobilization 
guidance. 
2.15.3.12.  AF/A3OD will oversee all changes to any approved mobilization 
authorization or order.  These changes include curtailments, extensions, substitutions, and 
administrative corrections. 
2.15.3.13.  AF/A3OD will rescind the mobilization order for any approved mobilization 
authorization identified as being no longer needed prior to the projected initial 
mobilization start date. 
2.15.3.14.  AF/A3OD in coordination with the applicable mobilization facilitator will 
establish staffing timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.15.3.15.  AF/A3OD will consolidate a list of all command mobilization representatives 
provided by mobilization facilitators, all other Major Commands, and Guard; and provide 
a contacts list to the providing offices and to each individual on the list. 
2.16.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4). 
2.16.1.  AF/A4 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.16.2.  AF/A4 coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
19 
2.16.3.  AF/A4 may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/A4 must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.16.4.  AF/A4 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.17.  Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). 
2.17.1.  SAF/CIO A6 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.17.2.  SAF/CIO A6 coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any 
Airmen whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.17.3.  SAF/CIO A6 may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a 
General Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, SAF/CIO A6 must provide a delegation letter 
to AF/A3OD. 
2.17.4.  SAF/CIO A6 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or 
procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.18.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Requirements (AF/A5/8). 
2.18.1.  AF/A5/8 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.18.2.  AF/A5/8 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure 
that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.19.  Director for Studies, Analyses and Assessments (AF/A9). 
2.19.1.  AF/A9 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.19.2.  AF/A9 coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.19.3.  AF/A9 may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel (O-6) and/or a civil 
service General Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/A9 must provide a delegation letter 
to AF/A3OD. 
2.19.4.  AF/A9 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.20.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10). 
2.20.1.  AF/A10 coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.20.2.  AF/A10 coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.20.3.  AF/A10 may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/A10 must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.20.4.  AF/A10 obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure 
that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.21.  Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC). 
2.21.1.  AF/HC coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
20 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.21.2.  AF/HC coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability falls under its authority. 
2.21.3.  AF/HC may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/HC must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.21.4.  AF/HC obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.22.  Air Force Historian (AF/HO). 
2.22.1.  AF/HO coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.22.2.  AF/HO coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.22.3.  AF/HO may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/HO must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.22.4.  AF/HO obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.23.  The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA). 
2.23.1.  AF/JA coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.23.2.  AF/JA coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
2.23.3.  AF/JA may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/JA must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.23.4.  AF/JA obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.23.5.  AF/JA will coordinate on any Air Force mobilization package pertaining to a Guard 
or Reserve member whose mobilization authority is under consideration for transfer to a 
different statute. 
2.24.  Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE). 
2.24.1.  AF/RE coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.24.2.  AF/RE coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include Reservists. 
2.24.3.  AF/RE may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/RE must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.24.4.  AF/RE obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.25.  Surgeon General (AF/SG). 
2.25.1.  AF/SG coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.25.2.  AF/SG coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any Airmen 
whose capability or Air Force Specialty Code falls under its authority. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
21 
2.25.3.  AF/SG may delegate signature authority no lower than a colonel and/or a General 
Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, AF/SG must provide a delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.25.4.  AF/SG obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that 
may impact the mobilization process. 
2.25.5.  AF/SG will assist Guard and Reserve members identified for demobilization who are 
being processed for a medical evaluation board/physical evaluation board and request to 
remain on Military Personnel Appropriation mandays under Title 10 United States Code § 
12301(h) until final disposition of the Disability Evaluation System. 
2.26.  Commander, Air Combat Command. 
2.26.1.  Air Combat Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for non-nuclear and non-
special operations conventional forces and is the focal point for all mobilization requests for 
these Guard and Reserve conventional forces. 
2.26.1.1.  Air Combat Command identifies mobilization requirements. 
2.26.1.2.  Air Combat Command tasks the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command, as 
applicable, to identify members to fill the mobilization requirement. 
2.26.1.3.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments (the Air Force’s war planning system that provides an Air Force 
feed to Joint Operation Planning and Execution System which is a joint system that 
enables force planning, deployment planning, and the execution of joint deployment and 
redeployment in support of military operations) automated data processing. 
2.26.1.4.  In the event a last minute change is identified, Air Combat Command staffs the 
mobilization request to tasked Major Commands for their coordination.  Any unresolved 
comments shall be elevated within the applicable chain(s) of command for resolution. 
2.26.1.5.  Air Combat Command submits the O6-approved and Major Command-
coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
2.26.1.6.  Air Combat Command coordinates with AF/A3OD, the other mobilization 
facilitators, Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command on the templates for use in the 
mobilization process. 
2.26.1.7.  Air Combat Command is required to utilize the templates AF/A3OD created, 
coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process. 
2.26.1.8.  Air Combat Command serves as the subject matter expert for any questions or 
any issues related to their mobilization request as AF/A3OD staffs the mobilization 
package through Headquarters Air Force. 
22 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.26.1.9.  Air Combat Command will monitor the Global Force Management Allocation 
Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if any 
unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for 
operational or administrative requirements. 
2.26.1.10.  Air Combat Command will monitor the Global Force Management Allocation 
Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess whether an 
extension is required.  If so, Air Combat Command will submit a mobilization extension 
request for approval within 14 days of the Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
modification release together with the Air Force plan to sustain this operational 
requirement once the extended period is complete. 
2.26.1.11.  Air Combat Command will assist the applicable air component, the Guard, 
Air Force Reserve Command, and AF/A3OD with any requested changes to previously 
approved mobilization authorization or mobilization order. 
2.26.1.12.  Air Combat Command must provide a written risk assessment with any 
substitution request submitted within 50 days prior to the mobilization start date.  The 
risk assessment must address as a minimum 1) impact if the position is not filled and 2) 
why neither an active component nor a Title 10 United States Code §12301(d) solution is 
feasible. 
2.26.2.  Air Combat Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.26.3.  Air Combat Command will develop internal guidance and procedures to ensure 
mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this instruction. 
2.26.4.  Air Combat Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, 
and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.26.5.  Air Combat Command must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator and Air 
Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized personnel command 
coded Air Combat Command are released from operational commitments and returned to 
home station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-processing within 
the period specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
2.26.6.  Air Combat Command in coordination with the AF/A3OD will establish staffing 
timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.26.7.  Air Combat Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is the 
command mobilization representative. 
2.27.  Commander, Air Force Special Operations Command. 
2.27.1.  Air Force Special Operations Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for 
special operations forces and, as such, is the focal point for all mobilization requests for 
Guard and Reserve special operations forces. 
2.27.1.1.  Air Force Special Operations Command identifies mobilization requirements. 
2.27.1.2.  Air Force Special Operations Command tasks the Guard and/or Air Force 
Reserve Command, as applicable, to identify members to fill the mobilization 
requirement. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
23 
2.27.1.3.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included;  validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
2.27.1.4.  In the event a last minute change is identified, Air Force Special Operations 
Command staffs the mobilization request to tasked Major Commands for their 
coordination.  Any unresolved comments shall be elevated within the applicable chain(s) 
of command for resolution. 
2.27.1.5.  Air Force Special Operations Command submits the vice commander-approved 
and Major Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
2.27.1.6.  Air Force Special Operations Command coordinates with AF/A3OD, the other 
mobilization facilitators, Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command on the templates for 
use in the mobilization process. 
2.27.1.7.  Air Force Special Operations Command is required to utilize the templates 
AF/A3OD created, coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process. 
2.27.1.8.  Air Force Special Operations Command serves as the subject matter expert for 
any questions or any issues related to their mobilization request as AF/A3OD staffs the 
mobilization package through Headquarters Air Force. 
2.27.1.9.  Air Force Special Operations Command will monitor the Global Force 
Management Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
modifications to assess if any unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an 
extension is needed for operational or administrative requirements. 
2.27.1.10.  Air Force Special Operations Command will monitor the Global Force 
Management Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
modifications to assess whether an extension is required.  If so, Air Force Special 
Operations Command will submit a mobilization extension request for approval within 
14 days of the Global Force Management Allocation Plan modification release together 
with the Air Force plan to sustain this operational requirement once the extended period 
is complete. 
2.27.1.11.  Air Force Special Operations Command will assist the applicable air 
component, the Guard, Air Force Reserve Command, and AF/A3OD with any requested 
changes to previously approved mobilization authorization or mobilization order. 
2.27.1.12.  Air Force Special Operations Command must provide a written risk 
assessment with any substitution request submitted within 50 days prior to the 
mobilization start date.  The risk assessment must address as a minimum 1) impact if the 
position is not filled and 2) why neither an active component nor a Title 10 United States 
Code §12301(d) solution is feasible. 
24 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.27.2.  Air Force Special Operations Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization 
policy. 
2.27.3.  Air Force Special Operations Command will develop internal guidance and 
procedures to ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in 
this instruction. 
2.27.4.  Air Force Special Operations Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any 
plan, guidance, and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.27.5.  Air Force Special Operations Command must work with the applicable mobilization 
facilitator and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized 
personnel command coded Air Force Special Operations Command are released from 
operational commitments and returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all 
demobilization and out-processing within the period specified in the individual’s activation 
orders. 
2.27.6.  Air Force Special Operations Command in coordination with the AF/A3OD will 
establish staffing timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.27.7.  Air Force Special Operations Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which 
office is the command mobilization representative. 
2.28.  Commander, Air Mobility Command. 
2.28.1.  Air Mobility Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for Mobility Air Forces 
(including Aeromedical Evacuation and Aerial Port) and, as such, is the focal point for all 
mobilization requests for Guard and Reserve Mobility Air Forces forces. 
2.28.1.1.  Air Mobility Command identifies mobilization requirements. 
2.28.1.2.  Air Mobility Command tasks the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command, 
as applicable, to identify members to fill the mobilization requirement. 
2.28.1.3.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
2.28.1.4.  In the event a last minute change is identified, Air Mobility Command staffs 
the mobilization request to respective tasked Major Commands for their coordination.  
Any unresolved comments shall be elevated within the applicable chain(s) of command 
for resolution. 
2.28.1.5.  Air Mobility Command submits the Vice Commander-approved and Major 
Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
25 
2.28.1.6.  Air Mobility Command coordinates with AF/A3OD, the other mobilization 
facilitators, the Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command on the templates for use in the 
mobilization process. 
2.28.1.7.  Air Mobility Command is required to utilize the templates AF/A3OD created, 
coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process. 
2.28.1.8.  Air Mobility Command serves as the subject matter expert for any questions or 
any issues related to their mobilization request as AF/A3OD staffs the mobilization 
package through Headquarters Air Force. 
2.28.1.9.  Air Mobility Command will monitor the Global Force Management Allocation 
Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if any 
unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for 
operational or administrative requirements. 
2.28.1.10.  Air Mobility Command will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess 
whether an extension is required.  If so, Air Mobility Command will submit a 
mobilization extension request for approval within 14 days of the Global Force 
Management Allocation Plan modification release together with the Air Force plan to 
sustain this operational requirement once the extended period is complete. 
2.28.1.11.  Air Mobility Command will assist the applicable air component, the Guard, 
Air Force Reserve Command, and AF/A3OD with any requested changes to previously 
approved mobilization authorization or mobilization order. 
2.28.1.12.  Air Mobility Command must provide a written risk assessment with any 
substitution request submitted within 50 days prior to the mobilization start date.  The 
risk assessment must address as a minimum 1) impact if the position is not filled and 2) 
why neither an active component nor a Title 10 United States Code §12301(d) solution is 
feasible. 
2.28.2.  Air Mobility Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.28.3.  Air Mobility Command will develop internal guidance and procedures to ensure 
mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this instruction. 
2.28.4.  Air Mobility Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, 
and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.28.5.  Air Mobility Command must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator and 
Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized personnel 
command coded Air Mobility Command are released from operational commitments and 
returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-
processing within the period specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
2.28.6.  Air Mobility Command in coordination with the AF/A3OD will establish staffing 
timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.28.7.  Air Mobility Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is the 
command mobilization representative. 
 
 
26 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.29.  Commander, Air Education and Training Command. 
2.29.1.  Air Education and Training Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization 
policy. 
2.29.2.  Air Education and Training Command may develop internal guidance and 
procedures to ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in 
this instruction. 
2.29.3.  Air Education and Training Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, 
guidance, and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.29.4.  Air Education and Training Command must work with the applicable mobilization 
facilitator and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized 
personnel command coded Air Education and Training Command are released from 
operational commitments and returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all 
demobilization and out-processing within the period specified in the individual’s activation 
orders. 
2.29.5.  Air Education and Training Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which 
office is the command mobilization representative. 
2.30.  Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command. 
2.30.1.  Air Force Global Strike Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for nuclear 
operations and, as such, is the focal point for all mobilization requests for Guard and Reserve 
nuclear operations forces. 
2.30.1.1.  Air Force Global Strike Command identifies mobilization requirements. 
2.30.1.2.  Air Force Global Strike Command tasks the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve 
Command, as applicable, to identify members to fill the mobilization requirement. 
2.30.1.3.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
2.30.1.4.  In the event a last minute change is identified, Air Force Global Strike 
Command staffs the mobilization request to respective tasked Major Commands for their 
coordination.  Any unresolved comments shall be elevated within the applicable chain(s) 
of command for resolution. 
2.30.1.5.  Air Force Global Strike Command submits the Vice Commander-approved and 
Major Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
2.30.1.6.  Air Force Global Strike Command coordinates with AF/A3OD, the other 
mobilization facilitators, the Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command on the templates 
for use in the mobilization process. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
27 
2.30.1.7.  Air Force Global Strike Command is required to utilize the templates 
AF/A3OD created, coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process. 
2.30.1.8.  Air Force Global Strike Command serves as the subject matter expert for any 
questions or any issues related to their mobilization request as AF/A3OD staffs the 
mobilization package through Headquarters Air Force. 
2.30.1.9.  Air Force Global Strike Command will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if 
any unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for 
operational or administrative requirements. 
2.30.1.10.  Air Force Global Strike Command will monitor the Global Force 
Management Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
modifications to assess whether an extension is required.  If so, Air Force Global Strike 
Command will submit a mobilization extension request for approval within 14 days of 
the Global Force Management Allocation Plan modification release together with the Air 
Force plan to sustain this operational requirement once the extended period is complete. 
2.30.1.11.  Air Force Global Strike Command will assist the applicable air component, 
the Guard, Air Force Reserve Command, and AF/A3OD with any requested changes to 
previously approved mobilization authorization or mobilization order. 
2.30.1.12.  Air Force Global Strike Command must provide a written risk assessment 
with any substitution request submitted within 50 days prior to the mobilization start date.  
The risk assessment must address as a minimum 1) impact if the position is not filled and 
2) why neither an active component nor a Title 10 United States Code §12301(d) solution 
is feasible. 
2.30.2.  Air Force Global Strike Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.30.3.  Air Force Global Strike Command will develop internal guidance and procedures to 
ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this 
instruction. 
2.30.4.  Air Force Global Strike Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, 
guidance, and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.30.5.  Air Force Global Strike Command must work with the applicable mobilization 
facilitator and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized 
personnel command coded Air Force Global Strike Command are released from operational 
commitments and returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all 
demobilization and out-processing within the period specified in the individual’s activation 
orders. 
2.30.6.  Air Force Global Strike Command in coordination with the AF/A3OD will establish 
staffing timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.30.7.  Air Force Global Strike Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office 
is the command mobilization representative. 
 
 
28 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.31.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command. 
2.31.1.  Air Force Materiel Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.31.2.  Air Force Materiel Command may develop internal guidance and procedures to 
ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this 
instruction. 
2.31.3.  Air Force Materiel Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, 
guidance, and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.31.4.  Air Force Materiel Command must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator 
and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized personnel 
command coded Air Force Materiel Command are released from operational commitments 
and returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-
processing within the period specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
2.31.5.  Air Force Materiel Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is 
the command mobilization representative. 
2.32.  Commander, Air Force Space Command. 
2.32.1.  Air Force Space Command serves as the mobilization facilitator for cyber and space 
operations and, as such, is the focal point for all mobilization requests for Guard and Reserve 
cyber and space operations forces. 
2.32.1.1.  Air Force Space Command identifies mobilization requirements. 
2.32.1.2.  Air Force Space Command tasks the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve 
Command, as applicable, to identify members to fill the mobilization requirement. 
2.32.1.3.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
2.32.1.4.  In the event a last minute change is identified, Air Force Space Command staffs 
the mobilization request to respective tasked Major Commands for their coordination.  
Any unresolved comments shall be elevated within the applicable chain(s) of command 
for resolution. 
2.32.1.5.  Air Force Space Command submits the Vice Commander-approved and Major 
Command-coordinated mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
2.32.1.6.  Air Force Space Command coordinates with AF/A3OD, the other mobilization 
facilitators, the Guard, and Air Force Reserve Command on the templates for use in the 
mobilization process. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
29 
2.32.1.7.  Air Force Space Command is required to utilize the templates AF/A3OD 
created, coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process. 
2.32.1.8.  Air Force Space Command serves as the subject matter expert for any questions 
or any issues related to their mobilization request as AF/A3OD staffs the mobilization 
package through Headquarters Air Force. 
2.32.1.9.  Air Force Space Command will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if 
any unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for 
operational or administrative requirements. 
2.32.1.10.  Air Force Space Command will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess 
whether an extension is required.  If so, Air Force Space Command will submit a 
mobilization extension request for approval within 14 days of the Global Force 
Management Allocation Plan modification release together with the Air Force plan to 
sustain this operational requirement once the extended period is complete. 
2.32.1.11.  Air Force Space Command will assist the applicable air component, the 
Guard, Air Force Reserve Command, and AF/A3OD with any requested changes to 
previously approved mobilization authorization or mobilization order. 
2.32.1.12.  Air Force Space Command must provide a written risk assessment with any 
substitution request submitted within 50 days prior to the mobilization start date.  The 
risk assessment must address as a minimum 1) impact if the position is not filled and 2) 
why neither an active component nor a Title 10 United States Code §12301(d) solution is 
feasible. 
2.32.2.  Air Force Space Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.32.3.  Air Force Space Command may develop internal guidance and procedures to ensure 
mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this instruction. 
2.32.4.  Air Force Space Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, 
and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.32.5.  Air Force Space Command must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator 
and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized personnel 
command coded Air Force Space Command are released from operational commitments and 
returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-
processing within the period specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
2.32.6.  Air Force Space Command in coordination with the AF/A3OD will establish staffing 
timelines for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.32.7.  Air Force Space Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is the 
command mobilization representative. 
2.33.  Commander, Pacific Air Forces. 
2.33.1.  Pacific Air Forces coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
30 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.33.2.  Pacific Air Forces may develop internal guidance and procedures to ensure 
mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this instruction. 
2.33.3.  Pacific Air Forces obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or 
procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.33.4.  Pacific Air Forces must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator and Air 
Reserve Component to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized personnel command 
coded Pacific Air Forces are released from operational commitments and returned to home 
station in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-processing within the 
period specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
2.33.5.  Pacific Air Forces will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is the command 
mobilization representative. 
2.34.  Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe/Commander, United States Forces 
Africa. 
2.34.1.  United States Air Forces Europe/United States Forces Africa coordinates on all Air 
Force mobilization policy. 
2.34.2.  United States Air Forces Europe/United States Forces Africa may develop internal 
guidance and procedures to ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and 
procedures in this instruction. 
2.34.3.  United States Air Forces Europe/United States Forces Africa obtains AF/A3OD 
coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization 
process. 
2.34.4.  United States Air Forces Europe/United States Forces Africa must work with the 
applicable mobilization facilitator and Air Reserve Component to assist the air component as 
it ensures mobilized personnel command coded United States Air Forces Europe/United 
States Forces Africa are released from operational commitments and returned to home station 
in sufficient time to accomplish all demobilization and out-processing within the period 
specified in the individual’s activation orders. 
2.34.5.  United States Air Forces Europe/United States Forces Africa will identify in writing 
to AF/A3OD which office is the command mobilization representative. 
2.35.  Commander, Air Force Reserve Command. 
2.35.1.  Air Force Reserve Command coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.35.2.  Air Force Reserve Command obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, 
and/or procedure that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.35.3.  Air Force Reserve Command will develop internal guidance and procedures to 
ensure mobilization requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this 
instruction. 
2.35.4.  Air Force Reserve Command provides the applicable mobilization facilitator the Air 
Force Reserve members to fill the mobilization requirements. 
2.35.5.  Air Force Reserve Command coordinates with AF/A3OD, the mobilization 
facilitators, and the Guard on the templates for use in the mobilization process. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
31 
2.35.6.  Air Force Reserve Command shall utilize the templates AF/A3OD created, 
coordinated, and distributed for the mobilization process. 
2.35.7.  Air Force Reserve Command shall adhere to all Department of Defense and Air 
Force standards and assumptions when selecting members to fill mobilization requirements.  
Any exceptions must be properly documented utilizing AF/A3OD-approved templates. 
(Note: Waivers only apply to mobilization approval level, not to whether the member is 
eligible to be mobilized.) 
2.35.7.1.  Air Force Reserve Command shall obtain written justification from the first 
General Officer or higher in the individual’s chain of command for an individual being 
mobilized with less than a 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell ratio. 
2.35.7.2.  Air Force Reserve Command shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the 
member waives the Department of Defense standard requiring Secretary of Defense 
approval for the mobilization of an individual having a mobilization-to-dwell ratio less 
than 1:4 and/or being activated with less than 12 months of dwell. 
2.35.7.3.  Air Force Reserve Command shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the 
member waives the applicable Department of Defense notification standard(s). 
2.35.7.4.  Air Force Reserve Command shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the 
member waives Public Law 110-181 § 515, requiring military departments to provide 
members of the Air Reserve Component who are ordered to active duty for more than 30 
days in support of a contingency operation, in so far as is practicable, advance notice not 
less than 30 days before the mobilization start date. 
2.35.8.  Air Force Reserve Command submits the command-approved mobilization request 
to the applicable mobilization facilitator. 
2.35.9.  Air Force Reserve Command assists the mobilization facilitators and AF/A3OD in 
adjudicating comments during mobilization package staffing. 
2.35.10.  Upon receipt of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, Air Force Reserve 
Command distributes the mobilization order to its tasked units within the timeline associated 
with the specific type of mobilization and provides a copy to each applicable mobilization 
facilitator and AF/A3OD.  Delayed-effective-date activation orders shall be provided to the 
member at least 180 days prior to the mobilization start date, or no later than 30 days after 
transmission of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, whichever is later.  If verbal order of 
the commander is used, the activation orders must be distributed to the member as soon as 
possible (see Attachment 9 and Air Force Instruction 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders). 
2.35.11.  Air Force Reserve Command shall monitor the mobilization periods of all reservists 
mobilized in accordance with this instruction. 
2.35.11.1.  Air Force Reserve Command will monitor the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan and Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if 
any unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for 
operational or administrative requirements. 
2.35.11.2.  Air Force Reserve Command shall identify the need for changes to an 
approved mobilization authorization or mobilization order and submit a change request to 
the applicable mobilization facilitator. 
32 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.35.11.3.  When a Deployment Availability code is used to release the original member, 
Air Force Reserve Command shall verify the member Deployment Availability code is 
documented in the system of record prior to submitting a filler in a substitution change 
request. 
2.35.11.4.  Air Force Reserve Command must work with the applicable mobilization 
facilitator to assist the air component as it ensures mobilized Reservists are released from 
operational commitments and are returned to home station in sufficient time to 
accomplish all demobilization and out-processing within the period specified in the 
individual’s activation orders. 
2.35.12.  Air Force Reserve Command will provide AF/A3OD weekly inputs to the Air 
Force Status of Pending Mobilizations slide. 
2.35.13.  Air Force Reserve Command will provide a quarterly report to SAF/MR on the 
timeliness between orders issuance and individual member activation.  Data will be 
submitted utilizing a SAF/MR-provided template and will include the reason for any issuance 
less than 180 days before activation. 
2.35.14.  Air Force Reserve Command will meet staffing timelines established by the 
mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.35.15.  Air Force Reserve Command will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is 
the command mobilization representative. 
2.36.  Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF). 
2.36.1.  NGB/CF coordinates on Air Force mobilization packages that include any 
Guardsman. 
2.36.2.  NGB/CF may delegate mobilization package signature authority no lower than a 
colonel and/or a General Schedule 15.  If a delegation is used, NGB/CF must provide a 
delegation letter to AF/A3OD. 
2.36.3.  NGB/CF coordinates on all Air Force mobilization policy. 
2.36.4.  NGB/CF obtains AF/A3OD coordination for any plan, guidance, and/or procedure 
that may impact the mobilization process. 
2.36.5.  NGB/CF will develop internal guidance and procedures to ensure mobilization 
requests comply with policy, guidance, and procedures in this instruction. 
2.36.6.  NGB/CF provides the mobilization facilitator the Guard members to fill the 
mobilization requirements. 
2.36.7.  NGB/CF coordinates with AF/A3OD, the mobilization facilitators, and Air Force 
Reserve Command on the templates for use in the mobilization process. 
2.36.8.  NGB/CF shall utilize the templates AF/A3OD created, coordinated, and distributed 
for the mobilization process. 
2.36.9.  NGB/CF shall adhere to all Department of Defense and Air Force standards and 
assumptions when selecting members to fill mobilization requirements.  Any exceptions must 
be properly documented utilizing AF/A3OD-approved templates.  (Note: Waivers only apply 
to mobilization approval level, not to whether the member is eligible to be mobilized.) 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
33 
2.36.9.1.  NGB/CF shall obtain written justification from the first General Officer or 
higher in the individual’s chain of command for an individual being mobilized with less 
than a 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell ratio. 
2.36.9.2.  NGB/CF shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the member waives the 
Department of Defense standard requiring Secretary of Defense approval for the 
mobilization of an individual having a mobilization-to-dwell ratio less than 1:4 and/or 
being activated with less than 12 months of dwell. 
2.36.9.3.  NGB/CF shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the member waives the 
applicable Department of Defense notification standard(s). 
2.36.9.4.  NGB/CF shall ensure commanders ask an individual if the member waives 
Public Law 110-181 § 515 requiring military departments to provide members of the Air 
Reserve Component who are ordered to active duty for more than 30 days in support of a 
contingency operation, in so far as is practicable, advance notice not less than 30 days 
before the mobilization start date. 
2.36.10.  NGB/CF submits the command-approved mobilization request to the applicable 
mobilization facilitator. 
2.36.11.  NGB/CF assists the mobilization facilitators and AF/A3OD in adjudicating 
comments during mobilization package staffing. 
2.36.12.  Upon receipt of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, NGB/CF distributes the 
mobilization order to its tasked units within the timeline associated with the specific type of 
mobilization and provides a copy to each applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD.  
Delayed-effective-date activation orders shall be provided to the member at least 180 days 
prior to the mobilization start date, or no later than 30 days after transmission of the 
mobilization order from AF/A3OD, whichever is later.  If verbal order of the commander is 
used, the activation orders must be distributed to the member as soon as possible (see 
Attachment 9 and Air Force Instruction 65-103). 
2.36.13.  NGB/CF shall monitor the mobilization periods of all Guardsmen mobilized in 
accordance with this instruction. 
2.36.13.1.  NGB/CF will monitor the Global Force Management Allocation Plan and 
Global Force Management Allocation Plan modifications to assess if any 
unexecuted/unused authority can be rescinded and/or if an extension is needed for 
operational or administrative requirements. 
2.36.13.2.  NGB/CF shall identify the need for changes to an approved mobilization 
authorization or mobilization order and submit a change request to the applicable 
mobilization facilitator. 
2.36.13.3.  When a Deployment Availability code is used to release the original member, 
NGB/CF shall verify the member Deployment Availability code is documented in the 
system of record prior to submitting a filler in a substitution change request. 
 
 
34 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
2.36.13.4.  NGB/CF must work with the applicable mobilization facilitator to assist the 
air component as it ensures mobilized guardsmen are released from operational 
commitments and are returned to home station in sufficient time to accomplish all 
demobilization and out-processing within the period specified in the individual’s 
activation orders. 
2.36.14.  When mobilization of the Guard unit/personnel is required, NGB/CF point of 
contact will notify the applicable governors of the use of their Guard forces. 
2.36.15.  NGB/CF will provide AF/A3OD weekly inputs to the Air Force Status of Pending 
Mobilizations slide. 
2.36.16.  NGB/CF will provide a quarterly report to SAF/MR on the timeliness between 
orders issuance and individual member activation.  Data will be submitted utilizing a 
SAF/MR-provided template and will include the reason for any issuance less than 180 days 
before activation. 
2.36.17.  NGB/CF will meet staffing timelines established by the mobilization facilitator and 
AF/A3OD for all emergent mobilization requirements. 
2.36.18.  NGB/CF will identify in writing to AF/A3OD which office is the NGB/CF’s 
mobilization representative. 
 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
35 
Chapter 3 
MOBILIZATION PROCESS 
3.1.  Prerequisites for Mobilization.   Guard or Reserve members are only mobilized if there is 
a validated need, a sourcing solution requiring a Guard or Reserve member, and an approved 
legal authority as specified in Title 10 United States Code. 
3.2.  Types of Mobilization Packages. 
3.2.1.  A baseline mobilization package is used to authorize the initial mobilization of a 
member for an approved emergent, preplanned or rotational mobilization requirement. 
3.2.2.  An extension mobilization package is used to request approval to increase the 
authorized mobilization duration of an approved member whose mobilization authority has 
not expired. 
3.2.3.  A substitution (filler) mobilization package is used to authorize the mobilization of 
a replacement member when an approved member has been released.  Members may be 
released under an authorized Deployment Availability code, or if no Deployment Availability 
code is applicable, by the Secretary of the Air Force. 
3.2.4.  A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move the authorized 
mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member whose 
mobilization authority has not expired. 
3.2.5.  Administrative changes  are made to the approved mobilization order to correct 
grammatical, typographical, and mathematical errors; and to amend a member’s time period 
in accordance with the guidance listed in the approved mobilization authorization. 
3.3.  Mobilization Steps.   The steps below depict a typical Title 10 United States Code § 12302 
baseline mobilization package.  Variations to these steps may be specific to the statute and/or 
type of mobilization package.  Attachments 2 through 8 provide details in regards to baseline, 
extension, and substitution mobilization packages for each mobilization authority.  Any 
exception within the steps in the individual attachments must be approved by AF/A3. 
3.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging. 
3.3.1.1.  The appropriate mobilization facilitator shall identify mobilization requirements 
using the mobilization worksheet and mobilization questionnaire.  Once the mobilization 
requirements are identified, the mobilization facilitator submits the mobilization 
requirements to the appropriate Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization 
representative(s). 
3.3.1.2.  The tasked Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command representative(s) shall 
provide the individual and unit level detail, and applicable documentation with the 
mobilization requirement, such as waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement 
memorandums, and late package documentation.  Once the Guard and/or Air Force 
Reserve Command mobilization representative(s) compiles the documentation, the 
mobilization requirement is now listed as a mobilization request.  The Guard and/or Air 
Force Reserve Command mobilization representative shall acquire command approval to 
release the mobilization request back to the mobilization facilitator. 
36 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
3.3.1.3.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
3.3.1.4.  The mobilization facilitator shall acquire command approval; and, if there was 
any last minute requirement change, tasked Major Command coordination, prior to 
submitting the mobilization request to AF/A3OD.  Any unresolved comments shall be 
elevated within the applicable chain(s) of command for resolution. 
3.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
3.3.2.1.  AF/A3OD shall review and validate the mobilization facilitator’s mobilization 
request (e.g., mobilization worksheet, mobilization questionnaire, waivers, late package 
documentation) and all needed coordination to ensure it meets the process requirements.  
AF/A3OD will adjudicate any irregularities with the applicable mobilization facilitator, 
Air Force Reserve Command and/or Guard. 
3.3.2.2.  Depending on the requirement, AF/A3OD shall create a baseline mobilization 
package (e.g., staff summary sheet, draft mobilization order, Secretary of Defense 
notification matrix, mobilization questionnaire, individual mobilization history, and 
miscellaneous documents) to begin the staffing process.  The staffing process consists of 
mandatory coordination, capability based coordination, and mobilization approval. 
3.3.2.2.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force coordination must be obtained from 
AF/A3, AF/A1, SAF/FM, SAF/GC, and, as applicable, the Guard and/or Air Force 
Reserve Command. 
3.3.2.2.2.  Capability based Headquarters Air Force coordination must be obtained 
from the applicable AF/SAF offices (e.g., AF/A2, AF/A4, AF/A6, AF/A9, AF/A10, 
and AF/SG). 
3.3.2.2.3.  As discussed in sections 2.2, 2.5, and 2.10, the Secretary of Defense, 
Secretary of the Air Force, and SAF/MR approve mobilization.  If the Secretary of 
Defense is the final approving authority for the mobilization, AF/A3OD will submit 
the coordinated mobilization package through Office of the Secretary of Defense for 
Secretary of Defense approval via the next scheduled Secretary of Defense Orders 
Book.  If the Air Force is the final approving authority for the mobilization, 
AF/A3OD will submit the approved mobilization package to Office of the Secretary 
of Defense for Secretary of Defense notification via the Secretary of Defense 
Notification Matrix. 
3.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
37 
3.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD will electronically distribute each approved mobilization order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC. 
3.3.3.2.  Upon receipt of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, the Guard and/or Air 
Force Reserve Command, as applicable, will distribute the mobilization order to the 
tasked units within three days of receiving the mobilization order and will provide a copy 
to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
3.3.3.3.  Delayed-effective-date activation orders shall be provided to the tasked member 
at least 180 days prior to the mobilization start date, or no later than 30 days after 
transmission of the mobilization order from AF/A3OD, whichever is later. 
3.4.  Process Timeline.   The three types of mobilization requirements all follow the same 
process timeline steps; however the time allotted for an emergent requirement is significantly 
less than the time allotted for preplanned and rotational requirements.  The emergent timeline is 
specific to each requirement and will be coordinated between the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command headquarters mobilization 
representative(s) as applicable, and AF/A3OD. 
3.4.1.  Preplanned and Rotational Requirements  . 
3.4.1.1.  No later than 330 days prior to the mobilization start date, the mobilization 
facilitator shall identify preplanned or rotational baseline mobilization requirements and 
submit them to the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command. (see Table 3.1) 
3.4.1.2.  Within 65 days of receiving the preplanned or rotational baseline mobilization 
requirements, the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command, as applicable, shall create 
and return a baseline mobilization request to the mobilization facilitator (minimum of 265 
days prior to the mobilization start date). 
3.4.1.3.  Within 20 days of receipt of the baseline mobilization request from the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command, the mobilization facilitator shall (1) update the 
baseline mobilization request, (2) staff the validated baseline mobilization request for 
mobilization facilitator command approval, and (3) transmit the command-approved 
baseline mobilization request to AF/A3OD (minimum of 245 days prior to the 
mobilization start date).  (Note: This is when a baseline mobilization request will be split 
to mitigate staffing timing issues.) 
3.4.1.4.  Within 14 days of receipt of the coordinated preplanned or rotational baseline 
mobilization request, AF/A3OD shall perform the staffing actions listed in sections 3.3.2. 
to 3.3.2.2.2.  (The remaining time is needed for Secretary of the Air Force, Secretary of 
Defense, Office of the Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff notification and approval 
listed in section 3.3.2.2.3.) 
3.4.1.5.  Immediately upon receipt of Secretary of Defense approval or notification, 
AF/A3OD shall electronically distribute each approved mobilization order to the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization facilitator, 
other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC. 
 
 
38 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
3.4.1.6.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable will distribute the 
mobilization order to the tasked units within three days of receipt of the approved 
mobilization order from AF/A3OD and will provide a copy to the applicable mobilization 
facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
3.4.1.7.  AFRC/CC and/or NGB/CF, as applicable, shall ensure units provide delayed-
effective-date activation orders to tasked members at least 180 days prior to the 
mobilization start date, or no later than 30 days after transmission of the mobilization 
order from AF/A3OD, whichever is later. 
Table 3.1.  Pre-planned and Rotational Baseline Meeting Air Force Timeline Standards. 
 
330 
 
265 
 
245 
 
235 
 
210 
205 
200 
 
180 
 
0 
Mobilization facilitator Mobilization Requirements to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
Assembles Member Data (65 days) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilization facilitator Review and Submit (20 days) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receipt from mobilization facilitator (245 days to 
activation) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headquarters Air Force Staffing (14 days) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Air Force Standard for Secretary of Defense Notification 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilization execution order distributed to the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command,  applicable 
mobilization facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), 
AF/A1, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilization Order distributed to tasked units 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Delayed-effective-date Activation Orders to Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.2.  Emergent Requirements  . 
3.4.2.1.  The mobilization facilitator shall identify emergent baseline mobilization 
requirements and in coordination with AF/A3OD establish a timeline for staffing. 
3.4.2.2.  The mobilization facilitator suspenses the requirement to the Guard and/or Air 
Force Reserve Command as applicable. 
3.4.2.3.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable shall create and 
return a baseline mobilization request to the mobilization facilitator in accordance with 
the established timeline. 
3.4.2.4.  The mobilization facilitator shall (1) update the baseline mobilization request, 
(2) staff the validated baseline mobilization request for mobilization facilitator command 
approval, and (3) transmit the command approved emergent mobilization request to 
AF/A3OD in accordance with the established timeline. 
3.4.2.5.  Upon receipt of the coordinated emergent baseline mobilization request, 
AF/A3OD shall expedite the staffing actions listed in section 3.3.2. 
 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
39 
3.4.2.6.  Immediately upon receipt of Secretary of Defense approval or notification, 
AF/A3OD will electronically distribute each approved emergent mobilization order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC (minimum of 
30 days prior to the mobilization start date unless Congress is notified). 
3.4.2.7.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable will distribute the 
mobilization order to the tasked units within one day of receipt of the emergent 
mobilization order and will provide a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and 
AF/A3OD. 
3.4.2.8.  The Air Force Reserve Command Commander and/or NGB/CF, as applicable, 
shall ensure units provide activation orders to tasked members immediately. 
3.4.3.  Extension Request. 
3.4.3.1.  Extension of the Mobilization Duration to an Earlier Start Date (Left). 
3.4.3.1.1.  No later than 60 days prior to the proposed mobilization start date the 
mobilization facilitator and/or Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
mobilization representative shall identify the need to increase the mobilization 
duration and create an extension mobilization request. 
3.4.3.1.2.  Within three days of creation of the extension mobilization package, the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to release 
the extension mobilization request to the mobilization facilitator (minimum 57 days 
prior to the proposed mobilization start date). 
3.4.3.1.3.  Within seven days of receipt of the extension mobilization request, the 
mobilization facilitator will validate the mobilization request and acquire command 
approval to release the extension mobilization request to AF/A3OD (minimum 50 
days prior to the proposed mobilization start date).  All requests inside of 50 days 
prior to the proposed mobilization start date require approval from AF/A3OD. 
3.4.3.1.4.  Within 14 days of receipt of the coordinated extension mobilization 
request, AF/A3OD shall perform the staffing actions listed in section 3.3.2. 
3.4.3.1.5.  Immediately upon receipt of Secretary of Defense approval or notification, 
AF/A3OD shall electronically distribute each approved mobilization order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC 
(minimum of 30 days prior to the mobilization start date unless Congress is notified). 
3.4.3.1.6.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable will 
distribute the mobilization order to the tasked units within one day of receipt of the 
mobilization order with a copy of the mobilization order to the applicable 
mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
3.4.3.1.7.  The AFRC/CC and/or NGB/CF, as applicable, shall ensure units provide 
amended activation orders to tasked members immediately. 
3.4.3.2.  Extension of the Mobilization Duration to a Later End Date (Right). 
40 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
3.4.3.2.1.  No later than 30 days prior to the original redeployment date the 
mobilization facilitator and/or Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
mobilization representative shall identify the need to increase the mobilization 
duration and create an extension mobilization request (this request can be submitted 
before or after the member is mobilized). 
3.4.3.2.2.  Within three days of creation of the extension mobilization package, the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to release 
the extension mobilization request to the mobilization facilitator. 
3.4.3.2.3.  Within seven days of receipt of the extension mobilization request, the 
mobilization facilitator will validate the mobilization request and acquire command 
approval to release the extension mobilization request to AF/A3OD. 
3.4.3.2.4.  Within 14 days of receipt of the coordinated extension mobilization 
request, AF/A3OD shall perform the staffing actions listed in section 3.3.2. 
3.4.3.2.5.  Immediately upon receipt of Secretary of Defense approval or notification, 
AF/A3OD shall electronically distribute each approved mobilization order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
3.4.3.2.6.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable will 
distribute the mobilization order to the tasked units within one day of receipt of the 
mobilization order with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and 
AF/A3OD. 
3.4.3.2.7.  The AFRC/CC and/or NGB/CF, as applicable, shall ensure units provide 
amended activation orders to tasked members immediately. 
3.4.4.  Substitution (Filler) Request. 
3.4.4.1.  No later than 60 days prior to the proposed mobilization start date the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization representative shall identify the need to 
replace an approved member for mobilization with a substitute (filler) and create a 
substitution 
mobilization 
request 
(e.g., 
filler 
worksheet, 
substitution 
request 
memorandum, annotated change message, applicable waiver(s)). (see Table 3.2.) 
3.4.4.2.  Within three days of creation of the substitution mobilization package, the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to release the 
substitution mobilization request to the mobilization facilitator (minimum 57 days prior 
to the mobilization start date). 
3.4.4.3.  Within seven days of receipt of the substitution mobilization request, the 
mobilization facilitator will validate the mobilization request and acquire command 
approval to release the substitution mobilization request to AF/A3OD (minimum 50 days 
prior to the mobilization start date).  All requests inside of 50 days prior to the 
mobilization start date require approval from AF/A3OD. 
3.4.4.4.  Within 14 days of receipt of the coordinated substitution mobilization request, 
AF/A3OD shall perform the staffing actions listed in section 3.3.2. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
41 
3.4.4.5.  Immediately upon receipt of Secretary of the Air Force or Secretary of Defense 
approval, AF/A3OD shall electronically distribute each approved mobilization order to 
the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC (minimum of 
30 days prior to the mobilization start date unless Congress is notified). 
3.4.4.6.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable will distribute the 
mobilization order to the tasked units within one day of receipt of the approved 
mobilization order with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
3.4.4.7.  The AFRC/CC and/or NGB/CF, as applicable, shall ensure units provide 
activation orders to newly tasked members immediately and amended activation orders to 
release the original members from the mobilization requirement. 
Table 3.2.  Substitution or Shift Meeting Air Force Timeline Standards. 
 
60 
 
 
57 
 
 
50 
 
 
30 
 
 
0 
Mobilization facilitator Shift Requirement to the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
 
 
The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
Assembles Member Data (3 days) 
 
 
 
 
The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command Shift 
Request to mobilization facilitator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilization facilitator Review and Submit (7 days) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receipt from mobilization facilitator (50 days to 
activation) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Air Force Standard for Secretary of Defense 
notification 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilization execution order distributed to the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command,  applicable 
mobilization facilitator, other tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM, and SAF/GC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilization Order to Units (1 day after Receipt) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activation Orders to Member (unless Congress 
notified) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.5.  Shift Request. 
3.4.5.1.  No later than 60 days prior to the proposed mobilization start date the 
mobilization facilitator and/or Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization 
representative shall identify the need to shift the mobilization period and create a shift 
mobilization request (see Table 3.2.). 
42 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
3.4.5.2.  Within three days of creation of the shift mobilization package, the Guard and/or 
Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to release the shift 
mobilization request to the mobilization facilitator (minimum 57 days prior to the 
proposed mobilization start date). 
3.4.5.3.  Within seven days of receipt of the shift mobilization request, the mobilization 
facilitator will validate the mobilization request and acquire command approval to release 
the shift mobilization request to AF/A3OD (minimum 50 days prior to the proposed 
mobilization start date).  All requests inside of 50 days prior to the proposed mobilization 
start date require approval from AF/A3OD. 
3.4.5.4.  Within 14 days of receipt of the coordinated shift mobilization request, 
AF/A3OD shall perform the staffing actions listed in section 3.3.2. 
3.4.5.5.  Immediately upon receipt of Secretary of Defense approval or notification, 
AF/A3OD shall electronically distribute each approved mobilization order to the Guard 
and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization facilitator, 
other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC (minimum of 30 days 
prior to the mobilization start date unless Congress is notified). 
3.4.5.6.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable will distribute the 
mobilization order to the tasked units within one day of receipt of the mobilization order 
with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
3.4.5.7.  The AFRC/CC and/or NGB/CF, as applicable, shall ensure units provide 
amended activation orders to tasked members immediately. 
 
MARK C. NOWLAND, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
43 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Public Law 110-181 § 515, Advance Notice to Members of Reserve Components of Deployment 
in Support of Contingency Operations 
Public Law 111-84 § 514, Limitation on Scheduling of Mobilization or Pre-mobilization 
Training for Reserve Units When Certain Suspension of Training is Likely 
Title 10 United States Code § 332, Use of Militia and Armed Forces to Enforce Federal 
Authority 
Title 10 United States Code § 333, Interference with State and Federal Law 
Title 10 United States Code § 688, Retired Members: Authority to Order to Active Duty; Duties 
Title 10 United States Code § 12301, Reserve Components Generally 
Title 10 United States Code § 12302, Ready Reserve 
Title 10 United States Code § 12304, Selected Reserve and certain Individual Ready Reserve 
Members; order to active duty other than during war or national emergency 
Title 10 United States Code § 12304a, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, 
and Air Force Reserve: order to active duty to provide assistance in response to a major disaster 
or emergency 
Title 10 United States Code § 12304b, Selected Reserve: order to active duty for preplanned 
missions in support of the combatant commands 
Title 10 United States Code § 12322, Active Duty for Health Care 
Title 10 United States Code § 802, ART 2. Persons Subject to This Chapter 
Title 10 United States Code § 12406, National Guard In Federal Service: Call 
Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components (RC), 07 June 
2016 (Incorporating Change 1, 28 February 2017) 
Department of Defense, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 
as of August 2017 
Joint Publication 4-05, Joint Mobilization Planning, 21 February 2014 
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, Air Force Policy 
for Implementing Section 12304b of Title 10, United States Code, 23 October 2017 
Air Force Policy Directive 10-4, Operations Planning:  Air and Space Expeditionary Force 
(AEF), 30 April 2009 
Air Force Instruction 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 07 December 
2006 (Incorporating Through Change 4, 13 March 2012) 
Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 01 December 2015 
(Incorporating Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2016-01, 30 November 2016) 
44 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Air Force Instruction 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010 
(Incorporating Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2017-01, 09 February 2017) 
Air Force Instruction 36-2254, Volume 1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 26 May 2010 
(incorporating Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2017-01, 22 February 2017) 
Air Force Instruction 36-2619, Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) Manday Program, 18 
July 2014 
Air Force Instruction 36-2633, The Air Force Reserve Pretrained Individual Manpower 
Programs – Management and Utilization, 30 August 2004 
Air Force Instruction 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 11 May 2016 (Incorporating Air Force 
Guidance Memorandum 2017-01, 26 July 2017) 
Air Force Instruction 36-3203, Service Retirements, 18 September 2015 (Incorporating Change 
1, 30 August 2017) 
Air Force Instruction 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations, 23 February 2009 
(Incorporating Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2017-01, 06 April 2017) 
Air Force Instruction 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, 05 August 2005 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008 (Incorporating Air Force 
Guidance Memorandum 2017-01, 02 June 2017) 
AF-A3-5 Mobilization Business Rules (13 May 2011), (Hereby rescinded) 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Form 
Air Force Form 679, Air Force Publication Compliance Item Waiver Request/Approval 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Terms 
Activation—The ordering of units and individual members of the reserve components to active 
duty (other than for training) under legislative authority granted to the President, Congress, or the 
Secretaries of the Military Departments. 
Air Force Status of Pending Mobilizations Report—A weekly document indicating the 
current staffing of upcoming mobilizations. AFRC/CC, NGB/CF, and AF/A3OD are responsible 
for generating this for the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and Secretary of the Air Force.  It 
includes the mobilization capability, Guard and Reserve participant(s), timing, and staffing 
process status. 
Air Reserve Component—This term comprises all the forces assigned to the Air National 
Guard of the United States and the Air Force Reserve. 
Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments—The Air Force’s war planning 
system provides an Air Force feed to Joint Operation Planning and Execution System automated 
data processing. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
45 
Demobilization—The process necessary to release from active duty, or federal service, units and 
members who were ordered to active duty or called to federal service pursuant to Title 10 United 
States Code §§ 332, 333, 688, 12301(a) or (b), 12302, 12304, 12340a, 12304b, or 12406. 
Dwell—The period of time between the release from involuntary active duty pursuant to Title 10 
United States Code §§ 12301(a), 12302, 12304, 12304a, and 12304b and the reporting date for a 
subsequent tour of mobilization.  (Dwell includes active duty performed in accordance with Title 
10 United States Code §§ 12301(b) or 12301(d) between such two periods of involuntary active 
duty.) 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System—The secure, web-based system for the 
management of joint manpower and personnel. 
General Officer Dwell Endorsement Memorandum—Individuals being mobilized with less 
than a 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell ratio require endorsed justification from the first General 
Officer or higher in the chain of command.  The endorsement must include verification the 
applicable unit considered other qualified individuals with suitable dwell (at least a 1:4 
mobilization-to-dwell ratio), and the applicable unit has neither a qualified individual who has 
never mobilized nor a volunteer.  Note: A member of the Senior Executive Service in the 
counterpart civilian leadership chain may provide the endorsement. 
Inactive National Guard—Army National Guard personnel in an inactive status not in the 
Selected Reserve who are attached to a specific National Guard unit but do not participate in 
training activities.  Upon mobilization, they will mobilize with their units.  In order for these 
personnel to remain members of the Inactive National Guard, they must muster once a year with 
their assigned unit.  Like the Individual Ready Reserve, all members of the Inactive National 
Guard have legal, contractual obligations. Members of the Inactive National Guard may not train 
for retirement credit or pay and are not eligible for promotion.  Also called Inactive National 
Guard.  See also Individual Ready Reserve; Selected Reserve. (Joint Publication 4-05) Non-
participating Guardsmen 
Individual Mobilization Augmentee—An individual reservist attending drills who receives 
training and is pre-assigned to an active component organization, a Selective Service System, or 
a Federal Emergency Management Agency billet that must be filled on, or shortly after, 
mobilization. (Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms) 
Individual Ready Reserve—A manpower pool consisting of individuals who have had some 
training or who have served previously in the active component or in the Selected Reserve, and 
may have some period of their military service obligation remaining.  Also called Individual 
Ready Reserve.  (Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms) Non-
participating Traditional Reservist (TR) and Individual Mobilization Augmentee 
Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager—A web-based Global Force Management tool that 
increases the efficiency of the global force management process by providing senior Department 
of Defense decision makers with a consolidated database of joint forces, capabilities, and the 
ability to identify force or capability requirements in support of military operations. 
Joint Operation Planning and Execution System—A joint system that enables force planning, 
deployment planning, and the execution of joint deployment and redeployment in support of 
military operations. 
46 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Late Package Justification—A narrative file required by the Joint Staff detailing why a 
mobilization package did not meet Secretary of Defense policy requirements and/or public law 
requirements. 
Mobilization—The process by which the nation makes the transition from a normal state of 
peacetime preparedness to a warfighting posture.  It involves the assembly, organization, and 
application of the nation’s resources for national defense and it encompasses all activities 
necessary to prepare systematically and selectively for war.  For the purpose of this Air Force 
Instruction, the term mobilization applies to members involuntarily activated under various 
statutes. 
Mobilization Employment Period—The time between involuntary activation and deactivation. 
Mobilization Facilitator—Specific Major Commands designated to oversee all mobilization 
requests within a specified operational area of responsibility.  The five mobilization facilitators 
are:  Air Combat Command for conventional operations; Air Force Global Strike Command for 
nuclear operations; Air Force Special Operations Command for special operations; Air Force 
Space Command for cyber and space operations; and Air Mobility Command for mobility 
operations. 
Mobilization Questionnaire—A narrative file submitted by the mobilization facilitator detailing 
basic information about a mobilization requirement such as the Plan Identifier, why the Guard 
and/or Reserve is needed, mobilization time period, pre-deployment training requirements, and 
potential shortfalls. 
Mobilization-to-Dwell Ratio—The ratio between the mobilization employment period and 
dwell. 
Mobilization Worksheet—A spreadsheet file submitted by the mobilization facilitator to 
provide in-depth details about an Air Force Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
requirement and how it will be fulfilled. 
Pretrained Individual Manpower—Individual Ready Reserve, Retired Active, Standby 
Reserve, Inactive Standby Reserve, and Retired Reserve. Sourcing from the Pretrained 
Individual Manpower pool is a limited surge option, and must be carefully exercised as part of a 
deliberate and graduated force presentation strategy. 
Ready Reserve—The Selected Reserve and Individual Ready Reserve liable for active duty as 
prescribed by law (Title 10 United States Code § 10142, 12301, and 12302). See also active 
duty; Individual Ready Reserve; Selected Reserve. (Department of Defense Dictionary of 
Military and Associated Terms) Includes: Air Reserve Technician, Reserve Technician, TRs, 
Individual Mobilization Augmentee, Individual Ready Reserve / Does not include Retirees, 
Standby Reserve 
Reconstitution—A specified period approved by the commander to account for equipment, 
supplies and for stabilizing and replenishing equipment and supply levels.  This period of time is 
restricted to unit-gained members. 
Rescind—To withdraw an order when it is no longer required. 
Retired Reserve—All Reserve members who receive retirement pay on the basis of their active 
duty and/or Reserve service; those members who are otherwise eligible for retirement pay but 
have not reached age 60 and who have not elected discharge and are not voluntary members of 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
47 
the Ready or Standby Reserve.  See also active duty; Ready Reserve; Standby Reserve. (Joint 
Publication 4-05) Includes both Active and Reserve Component Retirees 
Revoke—To cancel an order before it goes into effect or before any funds are expended. 
Secretary of Defense Orders Book—In regards to mobilizations covered by this instruction, it 
is a classified brief to the Secretary of Defense in which the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan is initially approved, modified, and mobilization requests are approved. 
Secretary of Defense Orders Book Briefer’s Notes—A classified document used to justify the 
submission of a late mobilization package or a mobilization package in which a member has a 
mobilization-to-dwell ratio below 1:4. 
Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix—A classified document used to notify the Secretary 
of Defense of involuntary mobilizations in which the member receives more than 180 days 
notification and the member’s mobilization-to-dwell ratio is above 1:4 or the member waived 
either one of those requirements. 
Selected Reserve—Those units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated by their 
respective Services and approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as so essential to initial wartime 
missions that they have priority over all other Reserves.  See also Ready Reserve.  (Department 
of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms) Includes Air Reserve Technicians, 
Reserve Technicians, TRs, and Individual Mobilization Augmentees. 
Substitution Request Memorandum—A commander-signed letter reporting the release 
circumstances (i.e., Deployment Availability code or non-coded justification) of an originally 
approved member and the submission of a replacement for approval. 
Unit Reconstitution—Unit-focused activity, for any time span up to 30 calendar days, dedicated 
to 
accounting 
for 
unit 
assigned 
members, 
equipment 
and 
supplies, 
and 
for 
stabilizing/replenishing equipment and supply levels commensurate with pre–deployment/pre-
operation levels.  Unit reconstitution is generally accomplished upon the unit’s arrival at home 
base after completion of redeployment or operations.  Unit Reconstitution is a command 
prerogative and may be approved by the unit commander.  If commander-approved for members 
to be mobilized, unit reconstitution days must be included on the worksheet in the mobilization 
request and be authorized through the mobilization approval process.  Although unit 
reconstitution is restricted to unit-assigned members, this time period is not intended for the 
following member actions: completion of required medical evaluations, out–processing, 
application for retention in the Active Component, application for retention on active duty for 
hardship, using accrued leave, approved Major Command down time, or travel time. 
 
48 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Attachment 2 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12301(A) (FULL AND TOTAL MOBILIZATION) 
A2.1.  Overview. 
A2.1.1.  Full Mobilization (Title 10 United States Code § 12301(a))  . – In time of war or 
of national emergency declared by Congress, or when otherwise authorized by law, an 
authority designated by the Secretary concerned may, without the consent of the persons 
affected, order any unit, and any member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, 
of a reserve component under the jurisdiction of that Secretary to active duty for the duration 
of the war or emergency and for six months thereafter.  However a member on an inactive 
status list or in a retired status may not be ordered to active duty under this subsection unless 
the Secretary concerned, with the approval of the Secretary of Defense in the case of the 
Secretary of a military department, determines that there are not enough qualified Reserves in 
an active status or in the inactive National Guard in the required category who are readily 
available. 
A2.1.2.  Total Mobilization.    Expansion of the active Military Services resulting from 
action by the Congress and the President to organize and/or generate additional units or 
personnel, beyond the existing force structure, and the resources needed for their support to 
meet the total requirement of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat 
to national security. 
A2.1.3.  Parameters. 
A2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Period 
A2.1.3.1.1.  Full Mobilization – Duration of the war or emergency and for six months 
thereafter 
A2.1.3.1.2.  Total Mobilization – Duration for the war or emergency and for six 
months thereafter 
A2.1.3.2.  Number of Reserve Component Personnel – Unlimited 
A2.1.3.3.  Eligible Personnel 
A2.1.3.3.1.  All Ready Reserve Members 
A2.1.3.3.2.  Upon Secretary of Defense approval all reserve component members 
listed as inactive or retired status 
A2.1.3.4.  Type of Requirement – Emergent 
A2.1.4.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A2.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A2.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A2.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator identify Baseline Mobilization Requirements 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
49 
A2.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A2.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A2.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Air Reserve Component’s mobilization representative 
A2.2.1.3.  Air Reserve Component mobilization representative provides individual 
member level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The Baseline 
Mobilization Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
A2.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A2.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A2.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A2.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A2.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A2.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
A2.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A2.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A2.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A2.2.1.4.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Baseline Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A2.2.1.5.  Air Reserve Component submits Baseline Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A2.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A2.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A2.2.1.8.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A2.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A2.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A2.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
50 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A2.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A2.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
A2.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A2.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A2.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package 
A2.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A2.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A2.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A2.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A2.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A2.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
A2.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A2.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A2.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A2.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A2.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A2.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A2.2.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A2.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A2.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A2.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A2.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A2.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A2.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A2.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A2.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A2.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A2.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A2.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A2.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A2.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
51 
A2.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A2.2.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A2.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A2.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A2.2.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units within three days with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and 
AF/A3OD. 
A2.2.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A2.3.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization Package Steps  .  A Substitution Mobilization 
Package is used to request approval to replace members who were released. 
A2.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A2.3.1.1.  The Air Reserve Component mobilization representative will create the 
Substitution Mobilization Request 
A2.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A2.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change. 
A2.3.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A2.3.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A2.3.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval and 
release Substitution Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A2.3.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A2.3.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD 
A2.3.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A2.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A2.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A2.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A2.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A2.3.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A2.3.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A2.3.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A2.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
52 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A2.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A2.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A2.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A2.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A2.3.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
A2.3.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A2.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A2.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A2.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A2.3.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
A2.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A2.3.2.3.1.4.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A2.3.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A2.3.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A2.3.2.3.2.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A2.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A2.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A2.3.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A2.3.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A2.4.  Shift Mobilization  .  A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move 
the authorized mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member 
whose mobilization authority has not expired. 
A2.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A2.4.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Shift Mobilization Request 
A2.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A2.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A2.4.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
53 
A2.4.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A2.4.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
A2.4.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A2.4.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Shift Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A2.4.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Shift Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A2.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A2.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A2.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A2.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A2.4.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A2.4.2.2.  Create Shift Mobilization Package 
A2.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A2.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A2.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A2.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A2.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A2.4.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A2.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A2.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A2.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A2.4.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A2.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A2.4.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
54 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A2.4.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A2.4.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A2.4.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A2.4.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A2.4.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A2.4.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A2.4.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A2.4.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A2.4.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A2.4.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A2.4.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A2.4.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A2.4.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A2.4.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A2.4.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A2.4.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A2.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A2.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A2.4.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A2.4.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
55 
Attachment 3 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12302 (PARTIAL MOBILIZATION) 
A3.1.  Overview. 
A3.1.1.  Partial Mobilization.    The expansion of the active armed forces, in time of war or 
national emergency declared by the President or when otherwise authorized by law, by the 
ordering of any unit, and any member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit, in 
the Ready Reserve under the jurisdiction of that Secretary to active duty for not more than 24 
consecutive months.  Reserve component members on the inactive status list or in a retired 
status may be ordered to active duty after the Secretary of Defense determines there are not 
enough qualified reservists in an active status and approves such activation. 
A3.1.2.  Parameters. 
A3.1.2.1.  Mobilization Period – Maximum of 24 months 
A3.1.2.2.  Number of Reserve Component Personnel – Limited to 1,000,000 at any one 
time 
A3.1.2.3.  Eligible Personnel – All Ready Reserve Members 
A3.1.2.4.  Type of Requirement – Emergent and/or Sustained (Rotational) 
A3.1.3.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A3.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A3.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A3.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator identify Baseline Mobilization Requirements 
A3.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A3.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A3.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Air Reserve Component’s mobilization representative. 
A3.2.1.3.  Air Reserve Component mobilization representative provides individual 
member level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The Baseline 
Mobilization Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
A3.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A3.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A3.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A3.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A3.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
56 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A3.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A3.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A3.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A3.2.1.4.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Baseline Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A3.2.1.5.  Air Reserve Component submits Baseline Mobilization Request to 
Mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A3.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A3.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A3.2.1.8.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A3.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A3.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A3.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A3.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
A3.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A3.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A3.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package 
A3.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A3.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A3.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A3.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
57 
A3.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A3.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A3.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A3.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A3.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A3.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A3.2.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A3.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A3.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A3.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A3.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A3.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A3.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A3.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A3.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A3.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A3.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A3.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A3.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A3.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A3.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A3.2.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A3.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A3.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A3.2.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A3.2.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A3.3.  Extension Mobilization.    An Extension Mobilization Package is used to request 
approval to change the mobilization duration and/or time period. 
A3.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
58 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A3.3.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Extension Mobilization Request 
A3.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change. 
A3.3.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A3.3.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Extension Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A3.3.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Extension Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A3.3.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A3.3.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Extension Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A3.3.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Extension Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A3.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A3.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A3.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.3.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A3.3.2.2.  Create Extension Mobilization Package 
A3.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A3.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A3.3.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
59 
A3.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A3.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A3.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A3.3.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A3.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A3.3.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A3.3.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A3.3.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A3.3.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A3.3.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A3.3.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A3.3.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A3.3.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A3.3.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A3.3.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A3.3.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A3.3.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A3.3.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A3.3.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A3.3.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A3.3.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A3.3.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A3.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A3.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A3.3.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A3.3.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
A3.4.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization.    A Substitution Mobilization Package is used to 
request approval to replace members who were released. 
A3.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
60 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A3.4.1.1.  The Air Reserve Component mobilization representative will create the 
Substitution Mobilization Request. 
A3.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change. 
A3.4.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A3.4.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A3.4.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval and 
release Substitution Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A3.4.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A3.4.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A3.4.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A3.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A3.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A3.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.4.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A3.4.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A3.4.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A3.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A3.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A3.4.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
A3.4.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A3.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A3.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A3.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A3.4.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
61 
A3.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A3.4.2.3.1.4.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A3.4.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A3.4.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A3.4.2.3.2.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A3.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A3.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Oder to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A3.4.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A3.4.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A3.5.  Shift Mobilization.    A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move 
the authorized mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member 
whose mobilization authority has not expired. 
A3.5.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A3.5.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Shift Mobilization Request 
A3.5.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.5.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change. 
A3.5.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A3.5.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A3.5.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
A3.5.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A3.5.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Shift Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
62 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A3.5.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Shift Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A3.5.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A3.5.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A3.5.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A3.5.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.5.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A3.5.2.2.  Create Shift Mobilization Package 
A3.5.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.5.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A3.5.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A3.5.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A3.5.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A3.5.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A3.5.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A3.5.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A3.5.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A3.5.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A3.5.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A3.5.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A3.5.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A3.5.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A3.5.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A3.5.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A3.5.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A3.5.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A3.5.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A3.5.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A3.5.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A3.5.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A3.5.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
63 
A3.5.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A3.5.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A3.5.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A3.5.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A3.5.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A3.5.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A3.5.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A3.5.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A3.5.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
 
64 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Attachment 4 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12304 (PRESIDENTIAL RESERVE CALL-UP) 
A4.1.  Overview. 
A4.1.1.  Presidential Reserve Call-Up.    The expansion of the active armed forces by the 
ordering of any unit and any member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit of the 
Selected Reserve, or any member in the Individual Ready Reserve mobilization category and 
designated as essential under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned to active duty 
when the President determines that it is necessary to augment the active forces for any named 
operational mission, or to provide assistance for responding to an emergency involving the 
use or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction, or a terrorist attack or threatened 
terrorist attack in the US that could result in significant loss of life or property.  Not more 
than 200,000 members of the Selected Reserve and the Individual Ready Reserve may be on 
active duty at any one time, of whom not more than 30,000 may be members of the 
Individual Ready Reserve.  This mobilization does not impact active duty end strength.  
Congress must be notified in writing within 24 hours of exercising this authority.  The report 
must describe the circumstances necessitating the action and describe the anticipated use of 
these units and/or members. 
A4.1.2.  Parameters. 
A4.1.2.1.  Mobilization Period – Maximum of 365 consecutive days 
A4.1.2.2.  Number of Reserve Component Personnel – Limited to 200,000 Selected and 
Individual Ready Reserve members at any one time and the Individual Ready Reserve 
has a 30,000 member cap. 
A4.1.2.3.  Eligible Personnel – All Selected Reserve and Individual Ready Reserve 
Members 
A4.1.2.4.  Type of Requirement – Emergent and/or Sustained (Rotational) 
A4.1.3.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A4.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A4.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A4.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator identifies Baseline Mobilization Requirements 
A4.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A4.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A4.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Air Reserve Component’s mobilization representative. 
A4.2.1.3.  Air Reserve Component mobilization representative provides individual 
member level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The Baseline 
Mobilization Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
65 
A4.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A4.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A4.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A4.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A4.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
A4.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A4.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A4.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A4.2.1.4.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Baseline Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A4.2.1.5.  Air Reserve Component submits Baseline Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A4.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A4.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the Mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A4.2.1.8.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A4.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A4.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements: 
A4.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A4.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
A4.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A4.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A4.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package: 
A4.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
66 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A4.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A4.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A4.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A4.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
A4.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A4.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A4.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A4.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A4.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A4.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A4.2.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A4.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A4.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A4.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A4.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A4.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A4.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A4.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A4.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A4.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A4.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A4.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A4.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A4.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A4.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A4.2.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A4.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A4.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
67 
A4.2.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A4.2.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A4.3.  Extension Mobilization.    An Extension Mobilization Package is used to request 
approval to change the mobilization duration and/or time period.  Under this statue, members 
cannot be extended past a maximum of 365 consecutive days. 
A4.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A4.3.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Extension Mobilization Request 
A4.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A4.3.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A4.3.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Extension Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A4.3.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Extension Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A4.3.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A4.3.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Extension Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A4.3.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Extension Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A4.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A4.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements: 
A4.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.3.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A4.3.2.2.  Create Extension Mobilization Package 
A4.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
68 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A4.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A4.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A4.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A4.3.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A4.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A4.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A4.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A4.3.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A4.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A4.3.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A4.3.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A4.3.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A4.3.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A4.3.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A4.3.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A4.3.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A4.3.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A4.3.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A4.3.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A4.3.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A4.3.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A4.3.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A4.3.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A4.3.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A4.3.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A4.3.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A4.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A4.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
69 
A4.3.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A4.3.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
A4.4.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization.    A Substitution Mobilization Package is used to 
request approval to replace members who were released. 
A4.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A4.4.1.1.  The Air Reserve Component mobilization representative will create the 
Substitution Mobilization Request. 
A4.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A4.4.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A4.4.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A4.4.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval and 
release Substitution Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A4.4.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A4.4.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A4.4.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A4.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A4.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements: 
A4.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.4.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A4.4.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A4.4.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A4.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A4.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A4.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A4.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A4.4.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
70 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A4.4.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A4.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A4.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A4.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A4.4.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
A4.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A4.4.2.3.1.4.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A4.4.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval: 
A4.4.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A4.4.2.3.2.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A4.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A4.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A4.4.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A4.4.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A4.5.  Shift Mobilization.    A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move 
the authorized mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member 
whose mobilization authority has not expired. 
A4.5.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A4.5.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Shift Mobilization Request 
A4.5.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.5.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change. 
A4.5.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A4.5.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A4.5.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
71 
A4.5.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A4.5.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Shift Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A4.5.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Shift Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A4.5.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A4.5.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements: 
A4.5.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A4.5.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.5.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A4.5.2.2.  Create Shift Mobilization Package 
A4.5.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A4.5.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A4.5.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A4.5.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A4.5.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A4.5.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A4.5.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A4.5.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A4.5.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A4.5.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A4.5.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A4.5.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A4.5.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A4.5.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A4.5.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
72 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A4.5.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A4.5.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A4.5.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A4.5.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A4.5.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A4.5.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A4.5.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A4.5.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A4.5.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A4.5.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A4.5.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A4.5.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A4.5.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A4.5.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A4.5.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A4.5.3.2.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A4.5.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
73 
Attachment 5 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12304A (DISASTER AND EMERGENCY 
RESPONSE) 
A5.1.  Overview. 
A5.1.1.  Disaster and Emergency Response.    When a Governor requests Federal 
assistance in responding to a major disaster or emergency, the Secretary of Defense may, 
without the consent of the member affected, order any unit, and any member not assigned to 
a unit organized to serve as a unit, of the Air Force Reserve to active duty for a continuous 
period of not more than 120 days.  This mobilization does not require congressional 
notification and does not count against active duty end strength. 
A5.1.2.  Parameters. 
A5.1.2.1.  Mobilization Period – A continuous period of not more than 120 days 
A5.1.2.2.  Number of Reserve Personnel – Unspecified 
A5.1.2.3.  Eligible Personnel – Any member of the Air Force Reserve 
A5.1.2.4.  Type of Requirement – Emergent 
A5.1.3.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A5.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A5.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A5.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator identify Baseline Mobilization Requirements 
A5.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A5.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A5.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Air Force Reserve Command mobilization 
representative. 
A5.2.1.3.  Air Force Reserve Command mobilization representative provides individual 
member level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The Baseline 
Mobilization Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
A5.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A5.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A5.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A5.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A5.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
74 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A5.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A5.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A5.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A5.2.1.4.  Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to release 
Baseline Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A5.2.1.5.  Air Force Reserve Command submits Baseline Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A5.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A5.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A5.2.1.8.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A5.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A5.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A5.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A5.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
A5.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A5.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A5.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package 
A5.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A5.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A5.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A5.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
75 
A5.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A5.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A5.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A5.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A5.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A5.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A5.2.2.3.1.5.  AF/RE 
A5.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A5.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A5.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A5.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A5.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A5.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A5.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A5.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A5.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A5.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A5.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A5.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A5.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A5.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A5.2.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A5.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A5.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to Air 
Force Reserve Command, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A5.2.3.2.  Air Force Reserve Command distributes the mobilization order to the tasked 
units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A5.2.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen 
A5.3.  Extension Mobilization.    An Extension Mobilization Package is used to request 
approval to change the mobilization duration and/or time period 
A5.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
76 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A5.3.1.1.  Mobilization facilitators and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization 
representative create the Extension Mobilization Request 
A5.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A5.3.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A5.3.1.2.  Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to release 
Extension Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A5.3.1.3.  Air Force Reserve Command submits Extension Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A5.3.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A5.3.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Extension Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A5.3.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Extension Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A5.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A5.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A5.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.3.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A5.3.2.2.  Create Extension Mobilization Package 
A5.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A5.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A5.3.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
77 
A5.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A5.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A5.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A5.3.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A5.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A5.3.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A5.3.2.3.1.5.  AF/RE 
A5.3.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A5.3.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A5.3.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A5.3.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A5.3.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A5.3.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A5.3.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A5.3.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A5.3.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A5.3.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A5.3.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A5.3.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A5.3.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A5.3.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A5.3.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A5.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A5.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to Air 
Force Reserve Command, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A5.3.3.2.  Air Force Reserve Command distributes the mobilization order to the tasked 
units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A5.3.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
A5.4.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization.    A Substitution Mobilization Package is used to 
request approval to replace members who were released. 
A5.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
78 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A5.4.1.1.  The Air Force Reserve Command mobilization representative will create the 
Substitution Mobilization Request 
A5.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A5.4.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A5.4.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A5.4.1.2.  Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval and release 
Substitution Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A5.4.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A5.4.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A5.4.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A5.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A5.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A5.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.4.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A5.4.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A5.4.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A5.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A5.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A5.4.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
A5.4.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A5.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A5.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A5.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A5.4.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
79 
A5.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A5.4.2.3.1.4.  AF/RE 
A5.4.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A5.4.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A5.4.2.3.2.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A5.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A5.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to Air 
Force Reserve Command, the applicable mobilization facilitator, other tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A5.4.3.2.  Air Force Reserve Command distributes the mobilization order to the tasked 
units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A5.4.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A5.5.  Shift Mobilization.    A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move 
the authorized mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member 
whose mobilization authority has not expired. 
A5.5.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A5.5.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization 
representative create the Shift Mobilization Request 
A5.5.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.5.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A5.5.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A5.5.1.2.  The Air Force Reserve Command component will acquire command approval 
to release Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator 
A5.5.1.3.  Air Force Reserve Command submits Shift Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator 
A5.5.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A5.5.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Shift Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
80 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A5.5.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Shift Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A5.5.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A5.5.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A5.5.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A5.5.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.5.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A5.5.2.2.  Create Shift Mobilization Package 
A5.5.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.5.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A5.5.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A5.5.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A5.5.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A5.5.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A5.5.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A5.5.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A5.5.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A5.5.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A5.5.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A5.5.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A5.5.2.3.1.5.  AF/RE 
A5.5.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A5.5.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A5.5.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A5.5.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A5.5.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A5.5.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A5.5.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A5.5.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A5.5.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A5.5.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
81 
A5.5.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A5.5.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A5.5.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A5.5.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A5.5.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A5.5.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A5.5.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to Air 
Force Reserve Command, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A5.5.3.2.  Air Force Reserve Command distributes the mobilization order to the tasked 
units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A5.5.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
 
82 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Attachment 6 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12304B (PREPLANNED MISSION SUPPORT) 
A6.1.  Overview. 
A6.1.1.  Preplanned Mission Support.    The expansion of the active armed forces in which 
a Secretary of a military department may order, without the consent of the members, any unit 
of the Selected Reserve to active duty to augment active forces for a preplanned mission in 
support of a combatant command.  The service must have identified the manpower and 
associated costs in the defense budget materials for the fiscal year or years in which reserve 
members are anticipated to be used.  Not more than 60,000 members of the reserve 
components will be mobilized at the same time and they shall not be on orders more than 365 
consecutive days.  This mobilization does not count against active duty end strength; 
however Congress must be notified in writing of exercising this authority.  The report must 
describe the circumstances necessitating the action taken and describing the anticipated use 
of the reservists. 
A6.1.2.  Parameters. 
A6.1.2.1.  Mobilization Period – Maximum of 365 consecutive days 
A6.1.2.2.  Number of Reserve Component Personnel 
A6.1.2.3.  Not more than 60,000 members of the reserve components of the armed forces 
may be on active duty at any one time 
A6.1.2.4.  Manpower and associated costs must be identified defense budget materials for 
the fiscal year(s) 
A6.1.2.5.  Eligible Personnel – Selected Reserve Members 
A6.1.2.6.  Type of Requirement – Preplanned 
A6.1.3.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A6.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A6.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A6.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator identify Baseline Mobilization Requirements 
A6.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A6.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A6.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Air Reserve Component’s mobilization representative 
A6.2.1.3.  Air Reserve Component mobilization representative provides individual 
member level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The Baseline 
Mobilization Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
83 
A6.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A6.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A6.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A6.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A6.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
A6.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A6.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A6.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A6.2.1.4.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Baseline Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A6.2.1.5.  Air Reserve Component submits Baseline Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A6.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A6.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A6.2.1.8.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A6.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A6.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A6.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A6.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
A6.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A6.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A6.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package 
A6.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
84 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A6.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A6.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A6.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A6.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
A6.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of the Air Force approval. 
A6.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A6.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A6.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A6.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A6.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A6.2.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A6.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A6.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A6.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A6.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A6.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A6.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A6.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A6.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A6.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A6.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A6.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A6.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A6.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A6.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A6.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A6.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD notifies Joint Staff of the approved Mobilization Authorization. 
A6.2.3.2.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A6.2.3.3.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
85 
A6.2.3.4.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A6.3.  Extension Mobilization.    An Extension Mobilization Package is used to request 
approval to change the mobilization duration and/or time period. 
A6.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A6.3.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Extension Mobilization Request. 
A6.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A6.3.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A6.3.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Extension Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A6.3.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Extension Mobilization Request to 
mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization 
facilitator. 
A6.3.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A6.3.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Extension Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A6.3.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Extension Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A6.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A6.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A6.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.3.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A6.3.2.2.  Create Extension Mobilization Package 
A6.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A6.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
86 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A6.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A6.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A6.3.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A6.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of the Air Force approval. 
A6.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A6.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A6.3.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A6.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A6.3.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A6.3.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A6.3.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A6.3.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A6.3.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A6.3.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A6.3.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A6.3.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A6.3.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A6.3.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A6.3.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A6.3.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A6.3.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A6.3.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A6.3.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A6.3.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A6.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A6.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD notifies Joint Staff of the approved Mobilization Authorization. 
A6.3.3.2.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A6.3.3.3.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A6.3.3.4.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
87 
A6.4.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization.    A Substitution Mobilization Package is used to 
request approval to replace members who were released. 
A6.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A6.4.1.1.  The Air Reserve Component mobilization representative will create the 
Substitution Mobilization Request. 
A6.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A6.4.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A6.4.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A6.4.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval and  
release Substitution Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A6.4.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A6.4.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A6.4.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A6.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A6.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A6.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.4.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A6.4.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A6.4.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A6.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A6.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A6.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A6.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A6.4.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
A6.4.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A6.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of the Air Force approval. 
A6.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
88 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A6.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A6.4.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
A6.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A6.4.2.3.1.4.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A6.4.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A6.4.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A6.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A6.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD notifies Joint Staff of the approved Mobilization Authorization. 
A6.4.3.2.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A6.4.3.3.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and, if applicable Air 
National Guard. 
A6.4.3.4.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A6.5.  Shift Mobilization.    A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move 
the authorized mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member 
whose mobilization authority has not expired. 
A6.5.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A6.5.1.1.  Mobilization facilitators and/or Air Reserve Component mobilization 
representative create the Shift Mobilization Request 
A6.5.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.5.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A6.5.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A6.5.1.2.  The Air Reserve Component component will acquire command approval to 
release Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A6.5.1.3.  Air Reserve Component submits Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
A6.5.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
89 
A6.5.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Shift Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A6.5.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Shift Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A6.5.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A6.5.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A6.5.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A6.5.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.5.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A6.5.2.2.  Create Shift Mobilization Package 
A6.5.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A6.5.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A6.5.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A6.5.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A6.5.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A6.5.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A6.5.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of the Air Force approval. 
A6.5.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A6.5.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A6.5.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A6.5.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A6.5.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A6.5.2.3.1.5.  Air Reserve Component Component (NGB/CF and/or AF/RE) 
A6.5.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A6.5.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A6.5.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A6.5.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A6.5.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A6.5.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A6.5.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A6.5.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A6.5.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
90 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A6.5.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A6.5.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A6.5.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A6.5.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A6.5.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A6.5.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A6.5.3.1.  AF/A3OD notifies Joint Staff of the approved Mobilization Authorization. 
A6.5.3.2.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
tasked Air Reserve Component, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major 
Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A6.5.3.3.  The tasked Air Reserve Component distributes the mobilization order to the 
tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A6.5.3.4.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
91 
Attachment 7 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 12406 (NATIONAL GUARD IN FEDERAL 
SERVICE) 
A7.1.  Overview. 
A7.1.1.  National Guard in Federal Service (Title 10 United States Code § 12406).    The 
expansion of the active armed forces by the President when the United States is invaded or is 
in danger of invasion by a foreign nation; or there is a rebellion or danger of a rebellion 
against the authority of the Government of the United States; or the President is unable with 
regular forces to execute the laws of the United States.  The President may call into Federal 
service members and units of the National Guard of any State in such numbers as he 
considers necessary to repel the invasion, suppress the rebellion, or execute those laws. 
A7.1.2.  Parameters. 
A7.1.2.1.  Mobilization Period – Unspecified 
A7.1.2.2.  Number of Personnel – Unspecified Eligible Personnel – All Members of the 
National Guard 
A7.1.2.3.  Type of Requirement – Emergent 
A7.1.3.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A7.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A7.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A7.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitators identify Baseline Mobilization Requirements. 
A7.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A7.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A7.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Air National Guard mobilization representative. 
A7.2.1.3.  Air National Guard mobilization representative provides individual member 
level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The Baseline Mobilization 
Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
A7.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A7.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A7.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A7.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A7.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A7.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
92 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A7.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A7.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A7.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A7.2.1.4.  Air National Guard will acquire command approval to release Baseline 
Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A7.2.1.5.  Air National Guard submits Baseline Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
A7.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A7.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A7.2.1.8.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A7.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A7.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A7.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A7.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A7.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
A7.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A7.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A7.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package 
A7.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A7.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A7.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A7.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
A7.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
93 
A7.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A7.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A7.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A7.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A7.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A7.2.2.3.1.5.  NGB/CF 
A7.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A7.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A7.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A7.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A7.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A7.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A7.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A7.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A7.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A7.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A7.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A7.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A7.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A7.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A7.2.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A7.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A7.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Air National Guard, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major Command(s), 
AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A7.2.3.2.  The Air National Guard distributes the mobilization order to the tasked units 
with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A7.2.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A7.3.  Extension Mobilization.    An Extension Mobilization Package is used to request 
approval to change the mobilization duration and/or time period. 
A7.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A7.3.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air National Guard mobilization representative 
creates the Extension Mobilization Request. 
A7.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
94 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A7.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A7.3.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A7.3.1.2.  Air National Guard will acquire command approval to release Extension 
Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A7.3.1.3.  Air National Guard submits Extension Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
A7.3.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A7.3.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Extension Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A7.3.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Extension Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A7.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A7.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A7.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A7.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.3.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A7.3.2.2.  Create Extension Mobilization Package 
A7.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A7.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A7.3.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A7.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A7.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A7.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
95 
A7.3.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A7.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A7.3.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A7.3.2.3.1.5.  NGB/CF 
A7.3.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A7.3.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A7.3.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A7.3.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A7.3.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A7.3.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A7.3.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A7.3.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A7.3.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A7.3.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A7.3.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A7.3.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A7.3.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A7.3.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A7.3.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A7.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A7.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Air National Guard, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major Command(s), 
AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A7.3.3.2.  The Air National Guard distributes the mobilization order to the tasked units 
with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A7.3.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
A7.4.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization.    A Substitution Mobilization Package is used to 
request approval to replace members who were released. 
A7.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A7.4.1.1.  The Air National Guard mobilization representative will create the 
Substitution Mobilization Request. 
A7.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A7.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
96 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A7.4.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A7.4.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A7.4.1.2.  Air National Guard will acquire command approval and release Substitution 
Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A7.4.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A7.4.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A7.4.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A7.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A7.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A7.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A7.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.4.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A7.4.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A7.4.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A7.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A7.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A7.4.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
A7.4.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A7.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A7.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A7.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A7.4.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
A7.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A7.4.2.3.1.4.  NGB/CF 
A7.4.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A7.4.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
97 
A7.4.2.3.2.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A7.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A7.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Air National Guard, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major Command(s), 
AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A7.4.3.2.  The Air National Guard distributes the mobilization order to the tasked units 
with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A7.4.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A7.5.  Shift Mobilization.    A shift mobilization package is used to request approval to move 
the authorized mobilization time period (without impacting duration) of an approved member 
whose mobilization authority has not expired. 
A7.5.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A7.5.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Air National Guard mobilization representative 
creates the Shift Mobilization Request. 
A7.5.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A7.5.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A7.5.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A7.5.1.2.  The Air National Guard component will acquire command approval to release 
Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A7.5.1.3.  Air National Guard submits Shift Mobilization Request to mobilization 
facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the mobilization facilitator. 
A7.5.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A7.5.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Shift Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A7.5.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Shift Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A7.5.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A7.5.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A7.5.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
98 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A7.5.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.5.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A7.5.2.2.  Create Shift Mobilization Package 
A7.5.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.5.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A7.5.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A7.5.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A7.5.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A7.5.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A7.5.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A7.5.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A7.5.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A7.5.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A7.5.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A7.5.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A7.5.2.3.1.5.  NGB/CF 
A7.5.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A7.5.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A7.5.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A7.5.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A7.5.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A7.5.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A7.5.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A7.5.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A7.5.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A7.5.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A7.5.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A7.5.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A7.5.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A7.5.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A7.5.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
99 
A7.5.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A7.5.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Air National Guard, the applicable mobilization facilitator, tasked Major Command(s), 
AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A7.5.3.2.  The Air National Guard distributes the mobilization order to the tasked units 
with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A7.5.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
 
100 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Attachment 8 
TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 332 (USE OF MILITIA AND ARMED FORCES 
TO ENFORCE FEDERAL AUTHORITY); AND TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE § 
333 (INTERFERENCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW) 
A8.1.  Overview. 
A8.1.1.  The following mobilization processes and procedures do not apply when the 
President calls into Federal service the militia of any State. 
A8.1.2.  Title 10 United States Code § 332.    Whenever the President considers that 
unlawful obstructions, combinations, or assemblages, or rebellion against the authority of the 
United States, make it impracticable to enforce the laws of the United States in any State by 
the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, he may call into Federal service such of the 
militia of any State, and use such of the armed forces, as he considers necessary to enforce 
those laws or to suppress the rebellion. 
A8.1.3.  Title 10 United States Code § 333.    The President, by using the militia or the 
armed forces, or both, or by any other means, shall take such measures as he considers 
necessary to suppress, in a State, any insurrection, domestic violence, unlawful combination, 
or conspiracy, if it (1) so hinders the execution of the laws of that State, and of the United 
States within the State, that any part or class of its people is deprived of a right, privilege, 
immunity, or protection named in the Constitution and secured by law, and the constituted 
authorities of that State are unable, fail, or refuse to protect that right, privilege, or immunity, 
or to give that protection; or (2) opposes or obstructs the execution of the laws of the United 
States or impedes the course of justice under those laws.  In any situation covered by clause 
(1), the State shall be considered to have denied the equal protection of the laws secured by 
the Constitution. 
A8.1.4.  Parameters. 
A8.1.4.1.  Mobilization Period – Unspecified 
A8.1.4.2.  Number of Personnel – Unspecified Eligible Personnel – All Members of the 
National Guard and Reserve 
A8.1.4.3.  Type of Requirement – Emergent 
A8.1.5.  Verbal Orders of the Commander.    If time or error prevents written orders from 
being published in advance of travel verbal order of the commander is authorized.  Refer to 
Attachment 9 for further guidance. 
A8.2.  Baseline Mobilization. 
A8.2.1.  Step 1 – Packaging. 
A8.2.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator identifies Baseline Mobilization Requirements 
A8.2.1.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet with manpower requirements and position 
details (training, requirements, travel, line remarks) 
A8.2.1.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
101 
A8.2.1.2.  Mobilization 
facilitator’s 
mobilization 
representative 
sends 
Baseline 
Mobilization Requirements to the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
mobilization representative(s) 
A8.2.1.3.  Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization representative(s) 
provides individual member level detail and when needed additional documentation.  The 
Baseline Mobilization Requirement is now a Baseline Mobilization Request. 
A8.2.1.3.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A8.2.1.3.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A8.2.1.3.3.  Waivers 
A8.2.1.3.3.1.  Dwell below 1:4 
A8.2.1.3.3.2.  Dwell less than 12 months 
A8.2.1.3.3.3.  Less than 180 days notification 
A8.2.1.3.3.4.  Less than 30 days notification 
A8.2.1.3.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A8.2.1.3.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A8.2.1.4.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command 
approval to release Baseline Mobilization Request back to mobilization facilitator. 
A8.2.1.5.  Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command submits Baseline Mobilization 
Request to mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the 
mobilization facilitator. 
A8.2.1.6.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A8.2.1.7.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit package to AF/A3OD. 
A8.2.1.8.  mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Baseline Mobilization Request to 
AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A8.2.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A8.2.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A8.2.2.1.1.  Mobilization Worksheet 
A8.2.2.1.2.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A8.2.2.1.3.  Waivers 
102 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A8.2.2.1.4.  General Officer Dwell Endorsement 
A8.2.2.1.5.  Late Package Documentation 
A8.2.2.2.  Create Baseline Mobilization Package 
A8.2.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A8.2.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A8.2.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A8.2.2.2.4.  Mobilization Questionnaire 
A8.2.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A8.2.2.2.6.  Miscellaneous (Waivers, General Officer dwell endorsement) 
A8.2.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A8.2.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A8.2.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A8.2.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A8.2.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A8.2.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A8.2.2.3.1.5.  NGB/CF and/or AF/RE 
A8.2.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A8.2.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A8.2.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A8.2.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A8.2.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A8.2.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A8.2.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A8.2.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A8.2.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A8.2.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A8.2.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A8.2.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A8.2.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A8.2.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A8.2.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
103 
A8.2.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A8.2.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A8.2.3.2.  The tasked Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command distributes the 
mobilization order to the tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization 
facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A8.2.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
A8.3.  Extension Mobilization Package.    An Extension Mobilization Package is used to 
request approval to change the mobilization duration and/or time period. 
A8.3.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A8.3.1.1.  Mobilization facilitator and/or Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command 
mobilization representative(s) creates the Extension Mobilization Request. 
A8.3.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A8.3.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A8.3.1.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A8.3.1.2.  Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval to 
release Extension Mobilization Request to mobilization facilitator. 
A8.3.1.3.  Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command submits Extension Mobilization 
Request to mobilization facilitator.  The approval record copy shall be provided to the 
mobilization facilitator. 
A8.3.1.4.  Upon receipt of the mobilization request, the mobilization facilitator confirms 
applicable General Officer endorsements and Airmen waivers are included; validates the 
member is applicable to the requirement, listed once, has dwell or waiver, etc; matches 
the line remarks (e.g., have appropriate grade, time set aside for training, qualifications, 
etc); and ensures no changes have occurred since the worksheet was submitted to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command (i.e., validate the worksheet continues to meet 
the approved requirements documented in Joint Capabilities Requirements Manager, 
Fourth Estate Manpower Tracking System, or Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and 
Execution Segments). 
A8.3.1.5.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator command 
approval to submit Extension Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A8.3.1.6.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Extension Mobilization Request 
to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A8.3.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A8.3.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A8.3.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A8.3.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
104 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A8.3.2.1.3.  Other applicable documents 
A8.3.2.2.  Create Extension Mobilization Package 
A8.3.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A8.3.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A8.3.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
A8.3.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A8.3.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A8.3.2.2.6.  Other applicable documents 
A8.3.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A8.3.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A8.3.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A8.3.2.3.1.2.  SAF/FM 
A8.3.2.3.1.3.  AF/A3 
A8.3.2.3.1.4.  AF/A1 
A8.3.2.3.1.5.  NGB/CF and/or AF/RE 
A8.3.2.3.2.  Capability Based Headquarters Air Force Staffing (as applicable) 
A8.3.2.3.2.1.  SAF/AQ 
A8.3.2.3.2.2.  SAF/CIO A6 
A8.3.2.3.2.3.  SAF/PA 
A8.3.2.3.2.4.  AF/A2 
A8.3.2.3.2.5.  AF/A4 
A8.3.2.3.2.6.  AF/A9 
A8.3.2.3.2.7.  AF/A10 
A8.3.2.3.2.8.  AF/HC 
A8.3.2.3.2.9.  AF/HO 
A8.3.2.3.2.10.  AF/JA 
A8.3.2.3.2.11.  AF/SG 
A8.3.2.3.3.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A8.3.2.3.3.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A8.3.2.3.3.2.  Secretary of Defense 
 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
105 
A8.3.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A8.3.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A8.3.3.2.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command distributes the execution order 
to the tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A8.3.3.3.  Units create and distribute amended individual activation orders to tasked 
Airmen. 
A8.4.  Substitution (Filler) Mobilization Package.    A Substitution Mobilization Package is 
used to request approval to replace members who were released. 
A8.4.1.  Step 1 – Packaging (Meeting the Need). 
A8.4.1.1.  The Air Force Reserve Command or Guard mobilization representative will 
create the Substitution Mobilization Request. 
A8.4.1.1.1.  An updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A8.4.1.1.2.  A draft Mobilization Order, using “Track Changes” to indicate the 
change and a reviewer comment to specify the need for the change 
A8.4.1.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A8.4.1.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A8.4.1.2.  The Guard or Air Force Reserve Command will acquire command approval 
and release Substitution Mobilization Request to the applicable mobilization facilitator 
A8.4.1.3.  The mobilization facilitator will submit the Substitution Mobilization Request 
for Approval 
A8.4.1.3.1.  The mobilization facilitator will acquire the mobilization facilitator 
command approval to submit Substitution Mobilization Request to AF/A3OD. 
A8.4.1.3.2.  Mobilization facilitator transmits coordinated Substitution Mobilization 
Request to AF/A3OD.  The approval record copy shall be provided to AF/A3OD. 
A8.4.2.  Step 2 – Pentagon Staffing. 
A8.4.2.1.  Review and validate submission to see if it meets the process requirements 
A8.4.2.1.1.  Updated Mobilization Worksheet 
A8.4.2.1.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A8.4.2.1.3.  Substitution request memorandum 
A8.4.2.1.4.  Other applicable documents 
A8.4.2.2.  Create Substitution Mobilization Package 
A8.4.2.2.1.  Staff Summary Sheet 
A8.4.2.2.2.  Draft Mobilization Order 
A8.4.2.2.3.  Secretary of Defense Notification Matrix 
106 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
A8.4.2.2.4.  Approved Baseline Staff Summary Sheet 
A8.4.2.2.5.  Individual Mob History 
A8.4.2.2.6.  Substitution request memorandum 
A8.4.2.2.7.  Other applicable documents 
A8.4.2.3.  Staff Mobilization Package throughout Headquarters Air Force, Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, and Joint Staff prior to Secretary of Defense notification or 
approval. 
A8.4.2.3.1.  Mandatory Headquarters Air Force Staffing 
A8.4.2.3.1.1.  SAF/GC 
A8.4.2.3.1.2.  AF/A3 
A8.4.2.3.1.3.  AF/A1 
A8.4.2.3.1.4.  NGB/CF and/or AF/RE 
A8.4.2.3.2.  Mobilization Package Approval 
A8.4.2.3.2.1.  Air Force (Secretary of the Air Force or delegate representative) 
A8.4.2.3.2.2.  Secretary of Defense 
A8.4.3.  Step 3 – Publication. 
A8.4.3.1.  AF/A3OD electronically distributes the approved Mobilization Order to the 
Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as applicable, the applicable mobilization 
facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, SAF/FM and SAF/GC. 
A8.4.3.2.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command distributes the mobilization 
order to the tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and 
AF/A3OD. 
A8.4.3.3.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
107 
Attachment 9 
VERBAL ORDERS OF THE COMMANDER 
A9.1.  Applies to all mobilizations  . 
A9.2.  Verbal orders are  only authorized when time or error prevents written orders from being 
published in advance of travel (refer to Air Force Instruction 65-103). 
A9.3.  Upon a verbal order of the commander  being issued, a classified message will be 
distributed to the mobilization facilitator confirming the authorization to mobilize pertinent 
forces. 
A9.4.  If a verbal order of the commander is used  , the mobilization facilitator must work 
with the applicable Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command mobilization representative(s) to 
properly document the verbally approved mobilization of members and submit the 
documentation (Mobilization Worksheet and Mobilization Questionnaire) to AF/A3OD within 
72 hours. 
A9.5.  Once the AF/A3OD receives the documentation  , the AF/A3OD will publish the 
Mobilization Order and distribute it to the Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command as 
applicable, the applicable mobilization facilitator, other tasked Major Command(s), AF/A1, 
SAF/FM and SAF/GC (Pentagon staffing is not required.). 
A9.6.  The Guard and/or Air Force Reserve Command distributes   the mobilization order to 
the tasked units with a copy to the applicable mobilization facilitator and AF/A3OD. 
A9.7.  Units create and distribute individual activation orders to tasked Airmen. 
 
108 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
Attachment 10 
ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGES 
A10.1.  Administrative changes are  amendments made to an approved mobilization order to 
correct minor grammatical, typographical, and mathematical errors; and to amend a member’s 
time period in accordance with the guidance listed in the mobilization authorization. 
A10.2.  The Guard, Air Force Reserve Command  , mobilization facilitator, or Headquarters 
Air Force may request an administrative change.  An administrative change request email 
includes a narrative explanation and an attached copy of the mobilization authorization message 
annotated with track changes depicting the requested change(s). 
A10.3.  The Guard and Air Force Reserve Command must  submit deletion of line requests 
through the appropriate mobilization facilitator. 
A10.4.  The requestor will  submit all requests to AF/A3OD for processing and provide a copy 
to the applicable mobilization facilitator. 
A10.5.  AF/A3OD processes all administrative changes. 
 
Attachment 11 
TYPES OF MOBILIZATION AUTHORITY 
A11.1.  Types of Mobilization Authority.  There are a total of 10 mobilization authorities.  Each authority differs in who authorizes the 
use of the authority, the situation in which Reserve and/or Guard forces may be mobilized, eligible personnel, the duration of the 
mobilization and the number of personnel authorized to be mobilized.  Attachment 11 depicts the major differences between these 
mobilization authorities. 
Figure A11.1.  Types of Mobilization Authority. 
R 
U 
L 
E 
Title 10 
United 
States 
Code § 
AUTHORIZES 
USE 
Air Force 
IMPLEMENTATION 
AUTHORITY 
SITUATION 
ELIGIBILE 
PERSONNEL 
MAXIMUM DURATION 
NUMBER OF 
PERSONNEL 
1 
12301(a) 
- Congress 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force or designated 
appointee 
- Congressional Declaration 
of War or national emergency 
- Reserve Component 
- When Secretary of the Air Force 
determines there are not enough 
qualified Reserves in an active 
status or in the inactive National 
Guard in the required category who 
are readily available, a request may 
be made for Secretary of Defense 
approval to order members on an 
inactive status list or in a retired 
status to active duty. 
the duration of the war or 
emergency and six months 
thereafter 
- Unspecified 
2 
12301(b) 
- Secretary of 
the Air Force 
- Unit Commander 
- At any time, for any lawful 
purpose 
- All Ready Reserve members 
- Not more than 15 days a year - All Ready 
Reserve Members 
3 
12302 
- President 
and/or Congress 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force or designated 
appointee 
- National emergency declared 
by the President 
- All Ready Reserve  members 
- Maximum of 24 months 
- Secretary of Defense 
approval is needed for 
durations greater than 12 
months 
- Secretary of the Air Force or 
USD (P&R) may approve less 
than or equal to 12 months 
- Limited to 
1,000,000 at any 
one time 
110 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
R 
U 
L 
E 
Title 10 
United 
States 
Code § 
AUTHORIZES 
USE 
Air Force 
IMPLEMENTATION 
AUTHORITY 
SITUATION 
ELIGIBILE 
PERSONNEL 
MAXIMUM DURATION 
NUMBER OF 
PERSONNEL 
4 
12304 
- President 
- Requires 
congressional 
notification 
within 24 hours 
of exercising the 
authority 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force or designated 
appointee 
- Augment the active forces: 
- For any named operational 
mission 
- To provide assistance during 
a terrorist attack or threatened 
terrorist attack in the United 
States 
- To provide assistance during 
a use or threatened use of a 
weapon of mass destruction 
- All Selected Reserve members 
- All Individual Ready Reserve 
members 
- Maximum of 365 
consecutive days 
- Limited to 
200,000 Selected 
and Individual 
Ready Reserve 
members at any one 
time 
- Individual Ready 
Reserve has a 
30,000 member cap 
- Excluded from 
end strength 
limitations 
5 
Title 10 United 
States Code § 
12304a 
- Secretary of 
Defense after a 
Governor  
requests Federal 
assistance 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force or designated 
appointee 
- A major disaster or 
emergency (as those terms 
are defined in section 102 of 
the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 United States Code § 
5122)) 
- Any member of the Air Force 
Reserve 
- A continuous period of not 
more than 120 days 
- Unspecified 
- Activated 
members do not 
count against the 
end strength 
6 
Title 10 United 
States Code § 
12304b 
- None 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force 
- Budget info must 
include description of  
mission and 
anticipated length of 
involuntary order 
- Requires 
congressional 
notification upon unit 
reporting to duty 
- Augment the active forces 
for a preplanned mission in 
support of a combatant 
command 
- Selected Reserve 
- Maximum of 365 
consecutive days 
- Not more than 
60,000 members of 
the reserve 
components of the 
armed forces may 
be on AD at any 
one time 
- Manpower and 
associated costs 
must be identified 
defense budget 
materials for the 
fiscal year(s) 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
111 
R 
U 
L 
E 
Title 10 
United 
States 
Code § 
AUTHORIZES 
USE 
Air Force 
IMPLEMENTATION 
AUTHORITY 
SITUATION 
ELIGIBILE 
PERSONNEL 
MAXIMUM DURATION 
NUMBER OF 
PERSONNEL 
- Excluded from 
end strength 
limitations 
7 
12406 
- President 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force 
- Is invaded or in danger of 
invasion by a foreign nation 
- A rebellion or danger of a 
rebellion against the authority 
of the Government of the 
United States 
- The President is unable with 
regular forces to execute the 
law of the United States 
- Members and/or units of the Air 
National Guard 
- Unspecified 
- Unspecified 
8 
332 
- President 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force 
- Whenever the President 
considers that unlawful 
obstructions, combinations, 
or assemblages, or rebellion 
against the authority of the 
United States, make it 
impracticable to enforce the 
laws of the United States 
- Members and/or units of the Air 
National Guard and Air Force 
Reserve 
- Unspecified 
- Unspecified  
9 
333 
- President 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force 
- The President shall take 
such measures as he 
considers necessary to 
suppress, in a State, any 
insurrection, domestic 
violence, unlawful 
combination, or conspiracy if 
it: 
- Hinders the execution of 
State and Federal Laws 
- Members and/or units of the Air 
National Guard and Air Force 
Reserve 
- Unspecified 
- Unspecified 
112 
AFI10-402  8 MARCH 2018 
R 
U 
L 
E 
Title 10 
United 
States 
Code § 
AUTHORIZES 
USE 
Air Force 
IMPLEMENTATION 
AUTHORITY 
SITUATION 
ELIGIBILE 
PERSONNEL 
MAXIMUM DURATION 
NUMBER OF 
PERSONNEL 
- Deprives people of a right 
privilege, immunity, or 
protection named in the 
Constitution and secured by 
law 
10 688 
- Secretary of 
Defense 
- Secretary of the Air 
Force 
- Under regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary of
Defense, a member described 
in subsection (b) may be 
ordered to AD by the 
Secretary of the military 
department concerned at any 
time. 
- The Secretary concerned 
may, to the extent consistent 
with other provisions of law, 
assign a member ordered to 
AD under this section to such 
duties as the Secretary 
considers necessary in the 
interests of national defense. 
- Retired members of the Regular 
Air Force 
- Retired Reserve members retired 
under section 1293 (20/+ years 
warrant officer), 8911 (20/+ years 
regular/reserve commission), or 
8914 (20-30 years enlisted) 
- The following members are 
excluded: 
- - An officer who retired under 
section 638 (selective early 
retirement) 
- - An officer who— 
(A) after having been notified that 
the officer was to be considered for 
early retirement under section 638 
of this title by a board convened 
under section 611 (convening of 
selection boards) (b) of this title 
and before being considered by that 
board, requested retirement under 
section 8911 of this title; and (B) 
was retired pursuant to that request. 
- No more than 12 months 
within the 24 months following
the first day of AD unless that 
member is a: 
- - Chaplain 
- - Health care professional 
- - Assigned to duty with the 
American Battle Monuments 
Commission 
- - Assigned to duty as a 
defense attaché or service 
attaché 
- May be waivered during a 
time of war or of national 
emergency declared by 
Congress or the President 
- Unspecified 
 
 
