 
 
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 17-213 
28 AUGUST 2017 
Cyberspace 
WARFIGHTING INTEGRATION 
SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS 
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: SAF/A6CW 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI33-134, 15 January 2015 
Certified by: SAF/A6CW  
(Col Christopher J. Gunderson) 
Pages: 19 
 
 
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 17-2, Cyberspace Operations, 
Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 8100.04, Unified Capabilities, DoDI 8420.02 
DoD Satellite Communications (SATCOM), Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
(CJCSI) 6250.01, Satellite Communications; it supports AFI 17-111 Information Technology 
(IT) Asset Management (ITAM) and AFI 17-210 Radio Management.  It provides procedures for 
Air Force (AF) personnel who procure and manage Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) and/or 
Fixed Satellite Service (FSS) resources in support of mission readiness and warfighting 
capabilities.  This instruction applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, members of 
the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, and other individuals or organizations as required 
by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air Force.  Refer questions or 
recommendations for changes on the content of this instruction through appropriate command 
channels to Secretary of the Air Force Warfighter Systems Integration 1800 Air Force Pentagon, 
Washington DC 20330-1800, using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a 
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, and T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, 
Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated 
with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the 
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered 
compliance items.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force 
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Contact supporting records managers as 
2 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
required.  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, 
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.  See 
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document implements DoDI 8420.02 DoD Satellite Communications (SATCOM) dated 
Sept 13, 2016, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6250.01, Satellite 
Communications.  This revision is intended to articulate guidance for all Air Force space-based 
communications, government and commercial satellite communications (SATCOM) systems, 
and commercial mobile and fixed satellite services. 
 
1. 
 Overview. ................................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
 Asset Management. .................................................................................................  
3 
3. 
 Requirements Management. ...................................................................................  
3 
4. 
 Satellite Communications Management. ................................................................  
3 
5. 
 Roles and Responsibilities. .....................................................................................  
4 
Figure 1. 
 Notification of excess Iridium/Inmarsat assets. ......................................................  
12 
6. 
 Disposition. .............................................................................................................  
12 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
14 
Attachment 2— TRAINING TOPICS FOR UNIT MSS MANAGERS 
 
18 
 
 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
3 
 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  This AFI replaces AFI 33-134, Warfighting Integration Satellite Communications 
Resource Management, and expands upon the SATCOM related elements of AFMAN 17-
2101 Long-Haul Telecommunications Management, to form a consolidated instruction for 
Air Force SATCOM resource management.  It identifies roles and responsibilities for Air 
Force organizations in the acquisition, management, and reporting of commercial SATCOM 
(COMSATCOM) services and commercially procurable SATCOM terminals.  It addresses 
both the equipment and service.  DoDI 8100.04 DoD Unified Capabilities (UC) states, 
“DISA is the preferred UC transport provider for Internet and commercial satellite 
connections used for voice, video, and/or data services on DoD networks.”  Exemptions and 
waiver authority to this policy are detailed in DoDI 8100.04. 
1.2.  This instruction addresses SATCOM-related elements of the Air Force Information 
Networks (AFIN) Infrastructure.  AFIN Infrastructure is the Air Force cyberspace 
infrastructure consisting of Air Force-owned/leased and controlled components (hardware, 
software, networks, systems, equipment, facilities, and services) operated by DoD, Air Force, 
contractor or other entity on behalf of the Air Force, which stores, transmits, receives, or 
processes information, regardless of classification or sensitivity. 
2.  Asset Management. 
2.1.  All MSS devices are categorized in AFI 17-1203, Information Technology (IT) Asset 
Management (ITAM), as commodity code “P” assets and will be accounted for in the Air 
Force Equipment Management System Asset Inventory Management (AFEMS-AIM). 
2.1.1.  The Surgeon General Managed Equipment Manager will accomplish annual 
inventory of MSS assets identified as Air Force Medical Service War Reserve Materiel 
and provide the annual inventory report directly to 38 CYRS. 
3.  Requirements Management. 
3.1.  DoDI 8100.04 DoD Unified Capabilities (UC) states, “DISA is the preferred UC 
transport provider for Internet and commercial satellite connections used for voice, video, 
and/or data services on DoD networks”.  Exemptions and waiver authority to this policy are 
detailed in DoDI 8100.04 paragraph 6b. 
3.2.  MAJCOM MSS managers will validate all of their MAJCOM MSS requirements in 
accordance with IAW AFMAN 17-2101 and the Long Haul Communications Requirements 
Process Guide (LRPG). 
4.  Satellite Communications Management. 
4.1.  The Air Force will provide necessary oversight and guidance for the associated AFIN 
SATCOM infrastructure.  The Air Force will implement an enterprise approach to the 
procurement and use of COMSATCOM. 
4.1.1.  The Air Force will use the use performance-based strategies and most cost 
effective method of satisfying SATCOM requirements, to include: the use of 
MILSATCOM (as the bandwidth provider of first choice), inclined orbit commercial 
satellites (when feasible), sharing existing bandwidth by implementing the use of Internet 
Protocol (IP) SATCOM modems.  The Air Force will use DISA as the preferred transport 
provider when procuring commercial SATCOM per DoDI 8100.04. 
4 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
4.1.2.  The Air Force will support the Joint SATCOM Panel IAW DoDI 8420.02 and 
CJCSI 6250.01.  Support the joint community in the development and assessments of 
SATCOM requirements, architectures, synchronization products (including the National 
Security SATCOM Systems Synchronization Roadmap (NS4R)) and SATCOM 
roadmaps.  Document and validate all Air Force current and future SATCOM 
requirements in the Joint Staff’s SATCOM Database (SDB) and SATCOM terminals in 
the NS4R. 
4.1.3.  The Air Force must maintain subject matter expertise on Air Force SATCOM 
connectivity requirements and support the annual review and revalidation of those 
requirements in the Joint Staff’s SDB. 
4.1.4.  Current and future systems must comply with national, military, and appropriate 
commercial standards and policies published in accordance with CJCSI 6250.01.  
Implement the Integrated Waveform (IW) on all software upgradable non-processed 
narrowband SATCOM radios.  Assignment to IW or DAMA narrowband networks 
should be the standard, with dedicated channels being the exception. 
4.1.5.  Existing and planned software defined radios operating in the UHF SATCOM 
band should plan to be interoperable with the Mobile User Objective System (MUOS).  
MUOS terminals should utilize the Joint Enterprise Network Manager (JENM). 
4.1.6.  In accordance with applicable domestic and international law, the AF will 
establish guidance and procedures for employing and operating SATCOM systems.  
Operators will obtain spectrum certification prior to procuring and/or operating 
SATCOM assets, and will follow the appropriate coordination procedures to gain host 
nation approval before operating SATCOM assets in overseas locations. 
4.1.7.  All AF organizations will use the SAF/FM approved Element of Expense 
Identification Codes (EEICs) to identify commercial SATCOM services and asset 
expenditures in the AF accounting system.  (T-1) 
4.1.8.  The AF will minimize the number of unique DoD Information Network Entry 
Point gateways and implement an enterprise approach whenever feasible. (T-2)  
COMSATCOM users should minimize reliance on major command (MAJCOM) or 
program unique gateways.  Solutions need to leverage DoD or AFIN enterprise solutions. 
(T-2) 
5.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
5.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Information Dominance and Chief Information 
Officer (SAF/CIO A6) general roles and responsibilities are listed in AFPD 17-2, Cyberspace 
Operations. 
5.1.1.  Provide oversight, policy and guidance for long-haul telecommunications 
equipment and services, satellite communications terminals, and military and leased 
SATCOM services to ensure effective implementation, consistent with net-centric policy, 
concepts and plans. 
5.1.2.  Represent the Air Force in Joint fora (e.g., Joint SATCOM Panel) related to 
satellite communications. 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
5 
 
5.1.3.  The focal point for developing Air Force SATCOM policy and for coordinating 
the annual reporting of commercial SATCOM operational usage and associated costs per 
DoDI 8420.02. 
5.1.4.  Is the Air Force waiver approval authority when requesting a waiver from using 
DISA as the preferred transport provider when procuring commercial SATCOM per the 
policy detailed in DoDI 8100.04.  Current and future systems must comply with 
international and domestic law; national, military, and appropriate commercial standards 
and policies published in accordance with DoDI 8420.02 and CJCSI 6250.01. 
5.2.  AFSPC as Core Functional Lead (CFL) for Cyberspace Superiority and Lead Command 
for Cyberspace organizes, trains, equips and operates cyberspace forces, systems and 
capabilities.  As such, AFSPC will: 
5.2.1.  Develop and coordinate a Service-level SATCOM enterprise architecture that 
serves as a roadmap identifying the MILSATCOM and COMSATCOM solutions needed 
to address known and future AF requirements.  The architecture will appropriately reflect 
the stated AF bandwidth requirements documented in the SDB IAW DoDI 8420.02. 
5.2.2.  Function as technical lead for maintaining the AF SDB requirements IAW DoDI 
8420.02, and present it to SAF/CIO A6 for annual validation.  Participate in SDB 
technical working group meetings. Support the joint community in the development and 
assessments of SATCOM requirements, architectures, and synchronization products 
(including the NS4R and SATCOM roadmaps). 
5.2.3.  In coordination with SAF/CIO A6 and SAF/AQ, define, develop, and deploy the 
components and systems, to support and sustain the AFIN SATCOM infrastructure.  
Support SAF/CIO A6 and SAF/AQ in developing and implementing guidance, 
procedures, technical standards for the AFIN SATCOM Infrastructure and associated 
information technology (IT) components. 
5.2.4.  Ensure terrestrial communications and MILSATCOM are employed when 
appropriate to decrease COMSATCOM leasing. Systems that technically cannot use 
MILSATCOM will not require AFSPC review for MILSATCOM availability. 
5.2.5.  Develop policy to ensure new systems or system modifications comply with 
CJCSI 6250.01. 
5.2.6.  Develop, coordinate and publish an inspection checklist within six months of 
publication of this instruction. 
5.3.  38th Cyberspace Readiness Squadron. 
5.3.1.  Acts on behalf of AFSPC as the day-to-day Air Force MSS manager.  Serves as 
the AF MSS representative in requirements and contract discussions with DISA and 
DITCO concerning award of MSS service and airtime contracts. 
5.3.2.  Serves as the Air Force a single point of contact for MAJCOM, vendors, and other 
parties to improve commercial SATCOM support and formulates recommended policy 
changes for SAF/CIO A6 approval. (T-2) 
6 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
5.3.3.  Consolidates the DISA Annual COMSATCOM report inputs from Air Force 
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS managers and forwards the report to SAF/CIO A6 for final 
coordination and submission. (T-0) 
5.3.4.  Monitor MSS technological advances and changes to identify the types of systems 
that can best satisfy Air Force requirements and makes recommendations to MSS 
MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency (FOA), direct reporting unit (DRU) Managers on the 
various enterprise solutions that will best meet their requirements. 
5.3.5.  Maintains an aggregated list of all Air Force MSS service contracts to provide 
baseline for COMSATCOM expense report. 
5.3.6.  Guides 
and 
assists 
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU 
MSS 
Managers 
in 
activation/deactivation, procurement of MSS systems and service, and SDB procedures.  
Acts as the Air Force Component Representative and coordinates with industry and 
MAJCOM/DRU/FOA MSS managers to submit MSS commissioning packages.  
Reviews and submits all aeronautical, ground, or maritime Satellite Activation Request 
Forms (SARFs) from MAJCOM/DRU/FOA MSS managers.  Activates, deactivates, 
places global bars, and requests suspension on Air Force's behalf. 
5.3.7.  Review MAJCOM/DRU/FOA requested waivers from the requirement to use 
DISA as the preferred transport provider per DoDI 8100.04 and coordinates with HQ 
USAF/A6 CIO for DoD CIO approval or disapproval.  Maintains a list of all waivers for 
services not procured through DISA/DITCO for annual expenditure reports. (T-0) 
5.3.8.  Serves as the Air Force Service Level Manager for vendor dashboards in order to 
efficiently manage accounts and access.  Reviews access requests from MAJCOMs and 
takes appropriate action for account set-up access to vender. 
5.3.9.  Reviews reports of excess equipment from MAJCOMs and coordinates with sister 
service MSS Managers for possible reuse and transfer if no Air Force requirement can be 
identified. 
5.3.10.  Provides initial and annual refresher training for all MAJCOM MSS managers.  
(See Attachment 2) (T-2) 
5.3.11.  Advises MAJCOM MSS Managers of OPSEC and COMSEC requirements for 
use of MSS devices. 
5.4.  MAJCOM, Management Headquarters (MHQ), and Air Force-level FOA/DRU. 
5.4.1.  All MAJCOM, MHQ, and Air Force-level FOA/DRUs will appoint a command-
level MSS Manager if MSS assets or accounts exist within their organizations (including 
all subordinate units).  For the purpose of this instruction, Air Force-level FOAs/DRUs 
are considered a MAJCOM/MHQ unless their parent organization serves as the MHQ. 
5.4.2.  Send command-level MSS appointment letters within 15 days of appointment to 
38 CYRS.  Appointment letters must include the name, rank, Defense Switched Network 
(DSN) number, individual and organizational e-mail address.  Appointment letters will be 
digitally 
signed 
in 
a 
PDF-formatted 
document 
to 
(38CYRS.commercial.satcom@us.af.mil). 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
7 
 
5.4.3.  Ensure all SATCOM requirements are documented in the SDB for service-level 
missions in accordance with IAW DoDI 8420.02 and CJCSI 6250.01 (T-0) 
5.4.4.  When one or more units from one MAJCOM/DRU/FOA are deploying in support 
of another MAJCOM/DRU/FOA, coordinate to insure equipment availability and funds 
are available to cover SATCOM airtime expenses in the appropriate Program Designator 
Code (PDC) account. 
5.5.  MAJCOM and Air Force FOA/DRU MSS Manager: 
5.5.1.  Ensures installation and unit compliance with DoD CIO policy on acquisition and 
use of MSS and forwards waiver requests for not using DISA as the preferred transport 
provider IAW DoDI 8100.04 paragraph 6b to the 38th CYRS. (T-0)  (Note:  Waivers to 
mandates involving the acquisition program execution chain are processed IAW the 
acquisition chain of authority as specified in AFI 63-101/20-101.) 
5.5.2.  Works with and forwards MSS requirements to proper MAJCOM/FOA/DRU 
authority and AFSPC/A5/8/9F for submission into the SDB per CJCSI 6250.01. (T-0) 
5.5.3.  Approves all MAJCOM MSS activation and deactivation requests in DISA Direct 
(DD) Storefront and ensures the MAJCOM Circuit Management Office (CMO) is 
included in the DISA Direct Storefront (DDSF) routing matrix. (T-1) 
5.5.4.  Serves as the overall manager of MSS assets within the command to ensure 
terminal assets are at the right place at the right time to ensure MAJCOM/FOA/DRU 
mission is met. 
5.5.5.  Coordinates with 38th CYRS and supported users to review and validate MSS 
commissioning packages.  Forwards validated SARFs to 38th CYRS.  Requests 38th 
CYRS activates, deactivates, places global bars, and requests suspension on supported 
user's behalf.  Authorizes the intra-command transfer of MSS terminals to ensure 
missions are met and consolidates requirements to gain efficiencies of scale.  Identifies 
excess equipment to the 38th CYRS and coordinates asset transfers between 
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU. 
5.5.6.  Advise installation MSS Managers of OPSEC and COMSEC responsibilities and 
requirements for use of MSS devices. 
5.5.7.  Validate 
requests 
for 
vendor 
dashboards 
and 
forward 
to 
(38CYRS.commercial.satcom@us.af.mil). 
5.5.8.  Obtain Telecommunications Certification Office Support System (TCOSS) MSS 
Database access and maintain MAJCOM, installation, and unit POC information. 
Acquire 
access 
to 
Air 
Force 
MSS 
SharePoint 
site: 
https://cs.eis.af.mil/sites/10179/default.aspx. (T-3) 
5.6.  Installation: 
5.6.1.  Communications Systems Officer (CSO) or Designated Representative appoints in 
writing, a primary and alternate installation MSS manager and forwards a copy of the 
appointment letter to the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager. (T-2) 
 
8 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
5.7.  Installation MSS Manager: 
5.7.1.  Sends a copy of the installation MSS Manager Appointment letter to the 
MAJCOM manager.  Complete installation MSS training with MAJCOM MSS manager 
within 60 days of appointment. (T-3) 
5.7.2.  Serve as the focal point for all installation MSS requirements and issues, excluding 
tenant units. 
5.7.3.  Assists and guide unit MSS managers with the completion of tasks associated with 
unit MSS manger responsibilities. 
5.7.4.  Ensures excess installation MSS equipment is identified to the MAJCOM MSS 
manager for deactivation or potential redistribution before turn in to the installation 
Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DLADS) without receiving 
5.7.5.  Review and validate installation Iridium SIM cards.  Forward completed report to 
the MAJCOM MSS manger to reconcile Air Force inventory against the MSS database. 
(T-2) 
5.7.6.  Forward vendor dashboard access requests and account removal requests to the 
MAJCOM MSS Manager. 
5.7.7.  Train unit MSS Managers, provide both initial and refresher training annually.  
Initial training should occur as soon as possible but not later than 60 days after unit MSS 
manager has been assigned. (See Attachment 2) (T-2) 
5.7.8.  Provide assistance to unit MSS Managers to coordinate new/replacement MSS 
equipment.  Provide assistance to unit MSS Managers to establish/discontinue service. 
5.7.9.  Acquire 
account 
and 
access 
to 
Air 
Force 
MSS 
SharePoint 
site: 
https://cs.eis.af.mil/sites/10179/default.aspx. 
5.7.10.  Acquire TCOSS account for access to the MSS database. 
5.7.11.  Advise unit MSS Managers of OPSEC and COMSEC responsibilities and 
requirements for use of MSS devices 
5.8.  Unit Commander or Designated Representative: 
5.8.1.  Appoint in writing a primary and alternate unit MSS manager and forwards a copy 
to the Installation MSS Manager.  Tenant units forward appointment letters to the owning 
Air Force FOA/DRU/MAJCOM MSS manger. (T-3) 
5.8.2.  Ensure requirements for MSS equipment and services are procured through DISA 
per DoDI 8100.04.  To purchase MSS assets/services outside DISA a waiver is required.  
Initiate waiver requests, through the installation MSS Manager IAW DoDI 8100.04 
paragraph 6b.  Tenant units forward waivers to their Air Force MAJCOM/FOA/DRU 
MSS Manager. 
 
 
 
 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
9 
 
5.9.  Unit MSS Manager: 
5.9.1.  Send a copy of the unit MSS Manager Appointment letter to the Installation MSS 
manager.  Tenant units will send a copy of the appointment letter to their 
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS Manager.  Complete Unit MSS training with installation 
MSS Manager within 60 days of appointment. (T-3) 
5.9.2.  Works with unit-level training manager to ensure qualification and on-the- job 
training is accomplished for MSS systems.  Training must ensure all terminal operators 
have a working knowledge of the airtime costs involved with operating the device(s). 
5.9.3.  Ensures excess MSS equipment is identified to the Installation MSS manager for 
deactivation or potential redistribution before turn in to the base’s designated DLADS. 
(T-3) 
5.9.4.  Establishes local Preventive Maintenance Inspections and pre- and post- 
deployment inspections, which will include, at minimum, an operational check for unit 
MSS equipment. (T-3) 
5.9.5.  Coordinate with the Wing COMSEC manager and the unit COMSEC Responsible 
Officer (CRO) on all technical solutions for MSS assets requiring National Security 
Agency (NSA) Type 1 encryption-endorsed products per National Security Systems 
guidance.  The COMSEC manager and CROs acquire and manage COMSEC material 
supporting MSS assets containing NSA-approved encryption modules. 
5.9.6.  Coordinates all activation, deactivation, barring, and transfers requests with Air 
Force FOA/DRU/MAJCOM MSS Manager. 
5.9.7.  Coordinate OPSEC and COMSEC training activities with base/unit OPSEC and 
COMSEC managers per AFMAN 17-1302, Communications Security (COMSEC) 
Operations, attachment 5, provides reference for secure voice device user training. 
5.9.8.  Forward vender dashboard access requests and removal requests to the Installation 
Manager. 
5.9.9.  Coordinate with Installation MSS Managers for new/replacement MSS equipment 
and to establish or discontinue service prior to placing a start or discontinue order in DSF 
to verify if hardware assets or service may be available for use. 
5.9.10.  Upon receipt of new MSS hardware coordinate with unit ITEC to ensure assets 
are accounted in AFEMS/AIM IAW AFI 17-1203. (T-2) 
5.9.11.  Annually validate Iridium SIM card Inventory (active and inactive) and MSS 
services.  Return completed inventory to the Installation Manager.  Tenant units forward 
to their Air Force FOA/DRU/MAJCOM to reconcile Air Force inventory with the MSS 
database. (T-3) 
5.9.12.  Acquire DSF account and roles to submit orders for Iridium hardware assets and 
iridium or Inmarsat services IAW AFMAN 17-2101 and the LPRG.  If arrangements are 
established with the Base Communications Squadron TCF to submit orders on your 
behalf this is an acceptable alternative. 
5.9.13.  Acquire 
account 
and 
access 
to 
Air 
Force 
MSS 
SharePoint 
site. 
https://cs.eis.af.mil/sites/10179/default.aspx. 
10 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
5.9.14.  Acquire TCOSS account for access to the MSS database. 
5.10.  Program Management Offices (PMO). PMOs or PMO-like entities manage the 
acquisition and sustainment of assets and services when imbedded in Air Force packages. 
PMOs will: 
5.10.1.  Ensure that MSS hardware and services installed within Air Force packages 
comply with current policy and guidance. 
5.10.2.  Provide all MSS hardware identification information (Manufacturer, Model, 
Serial number, etc.) to MAJCOM/Installation/Unit MSS managers for them to add assets 
into AIM/PWCS IAW AFI 17-1203. 
5.11.  Inmarsat. 
5.11.1.  Inmarsat is a commercial satellite communications system. Inmarsat owns and 
operates a fleet of satellites providing mobile voice and data communications capability. 
The Inmarsat terminal is a radio communications device using a satellite link to interface 
with terrestrial communications systems or other Inmarsat terminals.  Coverage is from 
approximately 60 degrees north latitude to approximately 60 degrees south latitude. 
5.11.2.  Acquiring Equipment. 
5.11.2.1.  The Unit MSS manager will purchase terminal equipment utilizing 
DISA/DITCO contracts line items or other contract vehicles prescribed by the 
Director DISA if available; otherwise units are authorized to purchase from any 
vendor offering the equipment as long as service is not included. 
5.11.2.2.  .All Air Force terminals must be securable per DoD CIO policy. To this 
end, NSA-approved cryptographic devices must be used when needed.  (T-0) 
5.11.2.3.  Inmarsat Hardware Assets will be shipped to the base ECO IAW AFI 17-
111. 
5.11.2.4.  Iridium assets will be ordered through DSF using the Service Request (SR) 
process unless an approved MSS Waiver is obtained. 
5.11.3.  Ordering Service. 
5.11.3.1.  Order MSS service through DSF. 
5.11.3.2.  Iridium SIM Cards. 
5.11.3.2.1.  Iridium SIM card(s) will be shipped to the end user ordering the 
card(s). 
5.11.3.2.1.1.  Active SIM cards:  Complete a DSF order for each active SIM 
card required.  When placing an order for active SIMS cards in DSF, only one 
active SIM card is allowed per order. 
5.11.3.2.1.2.  Inactive SIM cards can be ordered in multiples on a single order.  
Complete a DSF order for the number of inactive card(s) required. 
5.11.3.2.1.3.  SIM cards are not required to be entered in the AFEMS-AIM 
PWCS module for accountability. 
 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
11 
 
5.11.4.  Inmarsat SIM cards. 
5.11.4.1.  Complete a DSF order for each active SIM card required. When placing an 
order for active SIMS cards in DSF, only one active SIM card is allowed per order. 
5.11.4.2.  Inmarsat SIM cards are not required to be entered in the AFEMS-AIM 
PWCS module for accountability. 
5.11.5.  Deactivation. 
5.11.5.1.  When an Inmarsat system is no longer required, or transferred to a new 
owner outside the MAJCOM/DRU/FOA, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager 
will deactivate the terminal.  Deactivation ends the ability to use an Inmarsat 
terminal. (T-2) 
5.11.5.2.  The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will go through the same Point of 
Service Activation that was used for terminal activation. 
5.11.6.  Transfer of Iridium and Inmarsat Assets. 
5.11.6.1.  Units/Installations/MAJCOMs complete transfer documentation if assets 
are being reutilizing, or complete documentation for turn in to DLADS IAW AFI 17-
1203. 
5.11.6.2.  For reutilization advertising follow directions on the Air Force PWCS 
Management 
Share 
Point 
site 
(https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-SC-CA-
45/default.aspx) and the following figure 1 for notification of excess assets for those 
without an AIM account. 
12 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
Figure 1.  Notification of excess Iridium/Inmarsat assets. 
 
6.  Disposition. 
6.1.  Installation/Unit MSS manager will dispose of assets IAW AFI-17-1203. 
6.1.1.  If a terminal is not required, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will make 
sure the terminal is deactivated and dis-enrolled from the DITCO contract before turning 
in to a base’s designated DRMO. (T-2) 
6.2.  The Iridium/Enhanced Mobile Satellite Service (I/EMSS). 
6.2.1.  Iridium is a commercial satellite communications system, which employs a 
constellation of 66 satellites.  The constellation is accessed by a hand held phone and 
small low rate data devices that can be used anywhere globally, include the North and 
South poles. 
6.2.2.  Iridium Gateway.  The DoD’s Iridium EMSS Gateway serves as a dedicated portal 
for the uplink and downlink of voice and data traffic through Iridium satellites for the 
DoD and other U.S. government users throughout the world. 
6.3.  Acquiring Non-DoD Authorized Equipment and Service. 
6.3.1.  Users who require MSS other than Iridium or Inmarsat will work through their 
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager and the 38th CYRS office to request a waiver. (T-0) 
 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
13 
 
6.4.  Reporting procedures for the annual commercial SATCOM Cost and utilization report. 
6.4.1.  MAJCOM MSS MANAGER.  Provide a list of MAJCOM MSS service costs for 
all contracts other that those managed under Commercial Satellite Services (CSS) 
Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs) or EMSS contracts offered by DISA, to the Air 
Force MSS Office. 
6.4.2.  MSS lead consolidates all MSS inputs to report and forward to HQ USAF/CIO 
A6, 1800 Air Force Pentagon, and Washington DC 20330-1800, who submits to the Joint 
Staff. 
6.5.  Satellite Communications (SATCOM) Service. 
6.5.1.  Strategic Command Instruction 714-4 Consolidated Satellite Communications 
Management Policies and Procedures define policies and detailed procedures, along with 
associated roles and responsibilities, to perform consolidated SATCOM management. 
6.5.2.  MAJCOMS/FOA/DRU must have SATCOM service requests approved through 
the CJCSI 6250.01 process before submitting a Satellite Access Request and /or a DDSF 
if DISN access is part of the requirement. 
6.5.3.  MAJCOMS submit SDB approval requests (SDB-772, SDB Offline Submission 
Tool), indicating a mission requirement for SATCOM. 
6.5.3.1.  SDB requests made in support of current (start date is less than two years 
out) Combatant Command (CCDR) missions are captured and maintained by 
supported CCDRs. 
6.5.3.2.  SDB requests supporting non-CCDR missions or future (start date is more 
than two years out) requirements are captured and maintained by AFSPC/ A5/8/9F  
on behalf of the Air Force. 
6.5.3.3.  The CCDR or AFSPC enters all SATCOM requirements into the SDB, with 
technical guidance from the MAJCOM or requirement point of contact. 
 
BRADFORD J. SHWEDO, Lt Gen, USAF 
Chief, Information Dominance and Chief 
Information Officer 
14 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
CJCSI 6250.01, Satellite Communications 
CJCSI 6211.02D, Defense Information System Network (DISN) Responsibilities 
AFPD 17-1, Cyberspace Operations 
ADPD 17-2 Information Dominance Governance and Management 
AFMAN 33-322, Records Management Program 
AFMAN 17-2101, Long-Haul Telecommunications Management 
AFMAN 17-1203 “Information Technology (IT) Asset Management (ITAM) 
DoDI 8420.02, DoD Satellite Communications (SATCOM) 
DoDI 8100.04, DoD Unified Capabilities 
Strategic Command Instruction (SI) 714-4, Consolidated Satellite Communications Management 
Policies and Procedures 
Adopted Forms 
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFEMS-AIM—Air Force Equipment Management System Asset Inventory System 
AFIN—Air Force Information Networks 
AFI—Air Force instruction 
AFMAN—Air Force manual 
AFPD—Air Force policy directive 
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command 
CIO—Chief information officer 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
CCDR—Combatant Commander 
COMSATCOM—Commercial Satellite Communications 
CSO—Communications Systems Officer 
DAMA—Demand Assigned Multiple Access (DAMA) 
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency 
DITCO—Defense Information Technology Contracting Organization 
DoD—Department of Defense 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
15 
 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DoDIN—Department of Defense Information Network 
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office 
DRU—direct reporting unit 
EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code 
FSS—Fixed Satellite Service 
FOA—field operating agency 
JENM—JTRS Enterprise Network Manager 
JSP—Joint SATCOM Panel 
GHz—Gigahertz 
HQ—headquarters 
I/EMSS—Iridium/Enhanced Mobile Satellite Service 
Inmarsat—a commercial satellite Communications Company 
IT—information technology 
IP—Internet Protocol 
IW—Integrated Waveform 
MAJCOM—major command 
MILSATCOM—military satellite communications 
MUOS—Mobile User Objective System 
MSS—Mobile Satellite Services 
NS4R—National Security SATCOM Systems Synchronization Roadmap 
NSA—National Security Agency 
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense 
PDC—Program Designator Code 
RDS—records disposition schedule 
RUDICS—Router-based unrestricted digital internetworking connectivity solution 
SATCOM—satellite communications 
SDB—SATCOM database 
SI—Strategic Command Instruction 
UHF—ultra high frequency 
USSTRATCOM—US Strategic Command 
USAF—United States Air Force 
16 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
Terms 
Communications and Information System—an integrated system of communications 
equipment (hardware and software), facilities, personnel, and procedures designed to provide 
communications and information to its users. This includes the processing of the information by 
the system. Communications and information systems include base visual information support 
systems. 
Commercial Mobile Satellite Services (MSS)—Provide full-duplex, half-duplex, and simplex 
communications services, which support any type of digital telephone transmission. These 
commercial systems complement Department of Defense (DoD) communications resources and 
are standalone terminals that can only be used on one system; for example, an Iridium phone 
may only be used in the Iridium system. MSS systems are primarily on-demand, first-come, first- 
served communications. They often operate, but not exclusively, on frequencies at 3 Gigahertz 
(GHz) or below. Types of systems include, but are not limited to, Iridium and Inmarsat. 
Communications Systems Officer (CSO)—The designated official who has overall 
responsibility for communications and information support at any given level of the Air Force 
(base, tenant, MAJCOM, USAF, etc.). At base level, this is the commander of the 
communications unit responsible for carrying out base communications and information systems 
responsibilities.  At MAJCOM and other activities responsible for large quantities of 
communications and information systems, it is the person designated by the commander as 
responsible for overall management of communications and information systems budgeted and 
funded by the MAJCOM or activity. CSOs are the officer accountable for all automated data 
processing equipment and Personnel Wireless Communications Systems (PWCS) in their 
inventory. 
Fixed-Satellite Service (FSS)—Official classification geostationary communications satellites 
used for television, radio stations and networks broadcast feeds, as well as for telephony, 
telecommunications and data communications. FSSs operate in C band (from 3.7 to 4.2 GHz), 
Ku bands (from 11.45 to 11.7, and 12.5 to 12.75 GHz in Europe, and 11.7 to 12.2 GHz in the 
United States), and Ka band (17.3 to 31 GHz) (caveat: for brevity sake this list includes only the 
most widely used FSS frequency bands). The higher frequency bands tend to have more 
spectrum and orbital slots available, but more expensive technology and higher rain margin. 
Inmarsa—t—is a commercial satellite communications company, owns and operates a fleet of 
L- band and Ka-band satellites providing mobile voice and data communications capability. The 
Inmarsat terminal is a radio communications device using a satellite link to interface with 
terrestrial telephone systems or other Inmarsat terminals. 
Iridium/Enhanced Mobile Satellite Service (I/EMSS)—an L-band satellite constellation which 
provides a global wireless personnel communications network designed to permit narrow-band 
wireless transmission, (i.e., voice, data, fax, or paging), to reach its destination with a minimum 
reliance on land-based infrastructures. Cross-linking between satellites and up/down-linking 
through the DoD terrestrial satellite gateway at Wahiawa, Hawaii, allows DoD users network 
and DSN secure global access and coverage through specially designed portable and mobile 
telephones known as Iridium Subscriber Units (ISU). 
 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
17 
 
RUDICS—uses routers to allow termination and origination of circuit switched data calls to and 
from a specific IP address via a Telnet protocol. Support applications that have many field 
devices and one central host application. The service allows field devices to directly call the host 
application and the host application is able to directly call the field devices. 
SATCOM Database (SDB)—A Joint Staff sponsored comprehensive database of network 
connectivity requirements, which DISA maintains, intended to capture current and future 
information requirements of warfighter systems and platforms that require SATCOM. 
 
18 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
 
Attachment 2 
TRAINING TOPICS FOR UNIT MSS MANAGERS 
Figure A2.1.  Training Topics for Unit MSS Managers. 
 
1. General Information 
  a. Points of Contact 
    1. Base MSS Manager 
    2. DSF officials 
    3. Base PWCS Equipment Control Officer (ECO)  
  b. AF PWCS Community Site 
  c. Applicable Publications 
    1. AFI 17-210 
    2. AFI 17-213 
    3. AFMAN 17-1203 
    4. AFMAN 17-1201 
  d. MSS Requirements process 
    1. Local procedures 
    2. DISA Direct 
 
2. Administrative Responsibilities 
  a. Inventories 
    1. TCOSS 
    2. AIM 
  b. Expenditure reporting 
 
3. Maintenance and Operation Procedures 
  a. General Operating Procedures 
    1. Inmarsat 
    2. Iridium 
      a. Handsets 
      b. SBD 
      c. DTCS 
      d. Router-based unrestricted digital internetworking connectivity solution (RUDICS) 
  b. EMSS Gateways 
  c. PMIs and Operations checks 
  d. Procedures for processing assets for repair 
 
 
 
AFI17-213  28 AUGUST 2017 
19 
 
 
4. General Administrative tools 
  a. Dashboards 
  b. TCOSS 
  c. MSS SharePoint site 
 
5. COMSEC and OPSEC 
  a. User training 
  b. COMSEC training requirements 
  c. Unit SOPs  
 
