BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY 
OF THE AIR FORCE 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-2606 
6 JULY 2018 
Operations 
BIOLOGICAL AGENT AEROSOL 
COLLECTION AND IDENTIFICATION 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
OPR: AFMSA/SG3X 
Certified by: A10/DCS 
(Lt Gen Jack Weinstein) 
Pages: 18 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass 
Destruction. This instruction focuses on ambient air screening to identify covert releases of 
biological warfare agents (within a timeframe to execute effective, available, medical 
countermeasures before sentinel casualties present for medical care).  This Instruction applies to 
Active Duty, Reserve, Guard, civilians and contractors at all levels who are tasked with 
biological agent detection and identification activities to include the Air Force Reserve and Air 
National Guard, except when noted otherwise.  This Air Force Instruction may be supplemented 
at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to the 
Office of Primary Responsibility, AFMSA/SG3XC for coordination prior to certification and 
approval.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and 
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in Air Force 
Records Information Management System.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level 
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, and T-3”) number 
following the compliance statement.  See Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms 
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit 
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval 
authority, or alternatively, to the Publication Office of Primary Responsibility for non-tiered 
compliance items.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the 
Office of Primary Responsibility using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Changes 
of Publication; route Air Force Form 847 from the field through appropriate functional chain of 
command. 
 Certified Current 16 October 2019
2 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
 
Chapter 1— OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE 
 
3 
1.1. 
 Overview.  ...............................................................................................................  
3 
1.2. 
 Purpose. ..................................................................................................................  
3 
Chapter 2— ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
4 
2.1. 
 Headquarters Air Force ...........................................................................................  
4 
2.2. 
 Field Operating Agencies and Direct Reporting Units ...........................................  
5 
2.3. 
 Major Commands ...................................................................................................  
5 
2.4. 
 Installations/Operational locations will: .................................................................  
8 
Chapter 3— POLICY CONCERNS 
 
11 
3.1. 
 Policy Considerations.  ...........................................................................................  
11 
3.2. 
 Factors to Consider.  ...............................................................................................  
11 
3.3. 
 Risk-Based Approach.  ...........................................................................................  
11 
Chapter 4— SECURITY CLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE 
 
13 
4.1. 
 Security Classification Guides.  ..............................................................................  
13 
4.2. 
 Essential Elements of Friendly Information.  .........................................................  
13 
Chapter 5— EDUCATION, TRAINING AND EXERCISES 
 
14 
5.1. 
 Education and Training.  .........................................................................................  
14 
5.2. 
 Exercises .................................................................................................................  
15 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
16 
 
 
 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
3 
Chapter 1 
OVERVIEW AND PURPOSE 
1.1.  Overview.   The Air Force Biological Agent Aerosol Collection and Identification 
instruction implements an operational approach to detection of biological agents/threats for 
installations and operational sites across the full range of military operations.  The method 
applies new procedures using currently fielded equipment to achieve a viable detect-to-treat 
capability across the Air Force when a known adversary threat and capability exists, but 
actionable real-time intelligence information is not immediately available. Commanders retain 
responsibility for tailored preparation and response activities at each site based on 
mission/circumstances. This document establishes a degree of uniformity among installations 
with standardized planning and response measures. 
1.2.  Purpose.   This document provides guidance for one aspect of multi-layered Air Force 
biological detection activities.  The layered defense system is designed to provide commanders 
multiple opportunities and avenues to be informed of and make decisions on specific biological 
incident attacks in time to effectively implement the appropriate medical countermeasures and 
non-pharmaceutical interventions.  This cross-functional guidance applies to biological warfare 
agent threats across the full Range of Military Operations: Major Combat Operations, deployed 
contingency operations, special events, Homeland defense/security, etc.  Air Force Tactics, 
Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) 3-10.26, Air Force Biological Agent Aerosol Collection and 
Identification provides guidance to support installations implementation of this instruction to 
develop biological detection plans for their location and circumstance(s). 
 
 
4 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  Headquarters Air Force 
2.1.1.  Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
(A10) will: 
2.1.1.1.  Through the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Council, in conjunction 
with the Counter Weapons of Mass Destruction Policy Working Group and Chemical, 
Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Modernization Working Group, provide oversight 
of the Air Force biological warfare agent characterization requirements, to include 
establishing the “acceptable risk” protocols. 
2.1.1.2.  Provide oversight to the development, integration, and synchronization of Air 
Force biological warfare concepts, strategies, policies and guidance. 
2.1.1.3.  Through A10S, provide oversight of the development, coordination and 
implementation of Air Force cross-functional biological warfare operational concept of 
operations. 
2.1.2.  Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) will: 
2.1.2.1.  Establish policy and guidance and obtain and allocate medical resources in 
support of biological defense operations. 
2.1.2.2.  Ensure medical equipment and capability requirements for the early detection of 
aerosolized biological agents are incorporated into medical Unit Type Codes and 
appropriate Home Station Medical Response allowance standards as outlined in this 
instruction. 
2.1.2.3.  Provide staffing and resources to accomplish air screening, environmental 
sample collection, and identification activities in support of operational plans, 
contingencies, and special events. 
2.1.2.4.  Provide funding through appropriate program element codes for biological 
collection, detection, identification activities, and necessary training associated with 
handling environmental samples for medical capabilities. 
2.1.2.5.  Establish medical training guidance through policy to help with the execution of 
biological collection, detection, and identification activities. 
2.1.2.6.  Plan for sustainment costs for the medical biological agent collection, detection 
and identification assets and advocate for resources to address gaps in medical equipment 
and supplies. 
2.1.2.7.  Integrate medical-related biological collection, detection, and identification 
activities into Anti-Terrorism, medical, integrated defense, and Installation Emergency 
Management Plan policy and guidance. 
2.1.2.8.  Serve as medical product developer supporting biological defense related 
research, development, and acquisition activities in accordance with the process outlined 
in Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02, Operations of the Defense Acquisition. 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
5 
2.1.2.9.  Establish medical training policy and guidance to help with the execution of 
biological collection, detection, and identification activities described in this publication. 
2.1.2.10.  Work with the Readiness/Emergency Management community to ensure all 
aspects of biological agent sample collection, transport, documentation and delivery to 
the designated laboratory are fully integrated. 
2.1.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) will: 
2.1.3.1.  Develop, review, and update the Civil Engineering supplement to War 
Mobilization Plan-1 Appendix 10, Readiness and Emergency Management and Appendix 
11, Emergency Management.  Ensure war and contingency plans address Air Force 
Emergency Management program requirements including non-medical biological 
collection, detection, and identification capability. 
2.1.3.2.  Integrate non-medical biological collection, detection, and identification 
activities into Anti-Terrorism, medical, Integrated Defense, and Installation Emergency 
Management Plan policy and guidance. 
2.1.3.3.  Advocate for funding through appropriate joint and Air Force Chemical, 
Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear-related programs for non-medical biological 
collection, detection, and identification activities associated with environmental samples. 
2.1.3.4.  Establish non-medical training guidance through policy to help with the 
execution of biological collection, detection, and identification activities described in this 
publication. 
2.1.3.5.  Ensure non-medical biological defense surveillance measures are integrated and 
coordinated into applicable Air Force Instructions, Air Force Manuals, and Air Force 
Policy Directives. 
2.1.3.6.  Ensure Emergency Management personnel are trained and equipped to respond 
to biological events across the full Range of Military Operations, for all Emergency 
Management designated tasks. 
2.2.  Field Operating Agencies and Direct Reporting Units 
2.2.1.  Air Force District of Washington will perform all duties assigned to Major Commands 
in paragraphs  2.3.1.1. through  2.3.1.2. 
2.3.  Major Commands 
2.3.1.  Major Commands will: 
2.3.1.1.  Provide operational guidance as appropriate for installations under their control, 
to include those with limited response capabilities.   Major Commands with Joint Bases 
will consult Memorandum of Understanding to delineate rolls of CBRND response on the 
installations. 
2.3.1.2.  During non-Military Contingency Operations conditions, allocate resources to 
installations based on the threat level and incident action plan requirements.  Note: See 
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26 for additional Operational 
Guidance. 
2.3.2.  Air Combat Command (ACC) will: 
6 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
2.3.2.1.  Serve as Unit Type Codes (UTCs) Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging 
responsible agency for incorporating medical-related biological collection, detection, and 
identification resources into medical ground UTCs and Home Station Medical Response 
activities. 
2.3.2.2.  Track and monitor for sustainment costs for the medical biological agent 
collection, detection and identification assets fielded on medical UTCs and Home Station 
Medical Response 886 allowance standards (Bioenvironmental Flight) assigned to 
medical units. 
2.3.2.3.  Develop and sustain medical-related biological collection, detection, and 
identification equipment storage and deployment plan e.g., centralized storage, assets 
maintained at each AF installation. 
2.3.3.  Air Mobility Command (AMC) will: 
2.3.3.1.  Develop and implement policy on the transportation by air of biological 
environmental samples. 
2.3.3.2.  Develop aircraft handling procedures following the transport of biological 
environmental samples by air. 
2.3.3.3.  Transport biologically-contaminated human remains by air that have been 
certified as having been properly decontaminated in accordance with procedures 
established in Joint Publication 4-06, Mortuary Affairs in Joint Operations for additional 
guidance. 
2.3.3.4.  Receive and process biologically-contaminated human remains that have been 
certified as having been properly decontaminated in accordance with procedures 
established in. Reference Joint Publication 4-06 for additional guidance. 
2.3.3.5.  Processes request(s) from Headquarters Air Force and other authorized 
requestors for support in transporting biological samples to their destination via air.  This 
includes all overflight and landing requests required to complete the movement.  Air 
Mobility Command is not responsible for ground transportation to and from the airfield. 
2.3.3.6.  Provide oversight for Civil Reserve Air Fleet activities in the aftermath of 
Biological Warfare Agent events to include identifying required protective equipment for 
aircrew, developing and executing plans for use of the aircraft during contingencies, 
aircraft decontamination following operations. 
2.3.3.7.  Support contamination mitigation assessments through the provision of air 
passenger and aircraft movement records in the aftermath of events in which personnel 
and/or aircraft might have been exposed to Biological Warfare Agent. 
2.3.3.8.  Serve as Unit Type Code Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging 
responsible agency for incorporating medical-related biological collection, detection, and 
identification resources into medical air Unit Type Codes. 
2.3.4.  Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) will: 
2.3.4.1.  Serve as Unit Type Code Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging 
responsible agency for incorporating medical-related biological collection, detection, and 
identification resources into medical special operations Unit Type Codes. 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
7 
2.3.5.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will: 
2.3.5.1.  Oversee the incorporation of biological defense operational concepts into 
appropriate USAF School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) training courses. 
2.3.5.2.  Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) will: 
2.3.5.2.1.  Serve as an intermediate-level organization providing Installation and 
Mission Support oversight and capabilities for biological warfare defense activities to 
Air Component Commands, Major Commands/Field Operating Agencies/Direct 
Reporting Units and their subordinate organizations and installations. 
2.3.5.2.2.  Coordinate with Air Component Commands, Majors Commands/Direct 
Reporting Units, plan and develop posturing recommendations for organizational 
approval, and prepare forces and equipment to accomplish specific biological warfare 
defense objectives for Air Expeditionary Forces. 
2.3.5.2.3.  Provide staffing and resources at the earliest feasible time through the 
Time-Phased Force Deployment Data or alternative process to accomplish air 
screening and environmental sample collection activities in support of Operational 
Plans, contingencies, and special events.  This includes accomplishing environmental 
sample identification activities as required. 
2.3.5.2.4.  Program for sustainment costs for the non-medical biological agent 
collection, detection and identification assets fielded on 4F9W series Unit Type 
Codes and organizational allowance standards assigned to Civil Engineer units. 
2.3.5.2.5.  Air Force Civil Engineer Center Emergency Management Branch 
(AFCEC/CXR) will: 
2.3.5.2.5.1.  Provide asset visibility for Emergency Management equipment items 
and supplies required to execute the requirements outlined in this document and 
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26. 
2.3.5.2.5.2.  Ensure equipment and supplies required to support this document and 
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26 are included in PE 27593F 
Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Defense and PE 27574F Weapons of Mass 
Destruction Threat Response resourcing requirements. 
2.3.5.2.5.3.  Develop training programs, tactics, techniques and procedures for 
Emergency Management to support this document and Air Force Tactics, 
Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26. 
2.3.5.2.5.4.  Work with the medical community to fully integrate all aspects of 
biological agent sample collection, transport, documentation and delivery to the 
designated laboratory. 
2.3.5.2.5.5.  Develop and sustain Unit Type Codes with resources to respond to 
biological events both Continental United States and Outside the Continental 
United States with sufficient assets to sustain operations for 10-30 days in 
Military Contingency Operations and 4 days (unless otherwise directed) for home 
station. 
 
 
8 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
2.3.5.2.5.6.  Develop and sustain Emergency Management-related biological 
collection, detection, and identification equipment storage and deployment 
scheme e.g., centralized storage, assets maintained at each installation, etc. 
2.3.5.2.5.7.  Incorporate required resources for Emergency Management-related 
biological collection, detection, and identification activities into 4F9W series Unit 
Type Codes. 
2.3.5.2.5.8.  Provide instructional and Subject Matter Expertise (SME) guidance 
capability for biological event response. 
2.3.6.  Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will: 
2.3.6.1.  Oversee the incorporation of biological defense operational concepts into 
appropriate Air Force training courses. 
2.3.7.  Air National Guard:  NGB/SG will only fund biological agent aerosol collection 
equipment if it is listed on the 976H allowance standard. NGB/SG is only required to fund 
biological agent aerosol collection equipment on the 976H allowance standard at installations 
that have their sources to perform this function, as evidenced by inclusion of biological agent 
aerosol collection and identification capabilities in the Installation Emergency Management 
Plan (IEMP) or similar local plan. 
2.4.  Installations/Operational locations will: 
2.4.1.  Identify off site laboratories (organic Air Force, Laboratory Response Network, 
Defense Laboratory Network assets, host nation, etc.) to use if on-site capabilities are not 
available or have insufficient capacities. (T-1). 
2.4.2.  Develop a Dry Filter Unit siting plan that is to be reviewed biannually and when 
significant installation modifications take place e.g., modifications to the air operations areas, 
addition of new facilities - particularly multi story buildings and dormitories or other living 
structures.  (T-3). 
2.4.3.  Ensure Wing/installation leadership is aware of information on the biological threat 
and installation capabilities to counter that threat.  (T-2). 
2.4.4.  Utilize the Threat Working Group to periodically assess biological threats to ensure 
plans are appropriate.  Reassess response plans and resource allocations if changes in threats 
are identified.  (T-1). 
2.4.5.  Immediately report response activities and the results of any testing done on site in 
accordance with Air Force Instruction 10-206, Operational Reporting, and Chemical, 
Biological ,Radiological, and Nuclear Warning and Reporting System guidelines (Air Force 
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-2.56, Multiservice tactics, techniques and procedures 
for Chemical, Biological ,Radiological, and Nuclear Contamination Avoidance). (T-1). 
2.4.6.  Verify region specific hand-held assays are available and appropriate for the threat 
environment, and determine on hand quantities to assist in planning activities and funding 
requirements.  (T-2). 
2.4.7.  Incorporate biological collection, detection, and identification activities into wing 
exercises as appropriate. (T-3) 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
9 
2.4.8.  At Continental United States locations, consider collaboration with local Law 
Enforcement Fusion Centers as these centers will likely be the first intelligence processing 
bodies to recognize a likely biological warfare Continental United States threat. 
2.4.9.  Bioenvironmental Engineering will: 
2.4.9.1.  Serve as co-Office of Primary Responsibility with installation’s Emergency 
Management Flight/contingent in development of Biological Warfare Agent sampling 
strategies to include sampling protocols (monitoring period and sample handling 
procedures), locations, sample analysis, and decontamination procedures.  (T-3). 
2.4.9.2.  Provide 
a 
7-level 
Bioenvironmental 
Engineering 
technician, 
3-level 
Bioenvironmental Engineering Officer, or civilian equivalent to analyze potential 
Biological Warfare Agent toxin samples at an appropriate location during elevated threat 
levels in accordance with the Installation Emergency Management Plan and other base-
level plans. (T-3). 
2.4.9.3.  Provide educational materials and/or training on the installation’s medical 
biological collection, detection, and identification activities to key advisors and 
appropriate installation working groups (e.g. Installation Threat Working Group). (T-3). 
2.4.10.  Laboratory Services will: 
2.4.10.1.  Analyze environmental samples collected by Bioenvironmental Engineering 
and Emergency Management or process samples for shipment to state/Department of 
Defense reference laboratories.  (T-3). 
2.4.10.2.  Ship Biological Warfare Agent samples for further analysis to higher analytical 
echelons.  (T-3). 
2.4.11.  Public Health Office will: 
2.4.11.1.  Investigate positive Biological Warfare Agent identification in the context of 
other pertinent information to make subsequent assessments and interpretation of 
findings.  (T-1). 
2.4.11.2.  Report in accordance with Department of Defense, International, Federal, State 
and local requirements (reference: Air Force Instruction 48-105, Surveillance, 
Prevention, and Control of Disease and Conditions of Public Health or Military 
Significance). (T-0) 
2.4.12.  Readiness and Emergency Management (Readiness & Emergency Management 
Flight/Contingent Will: 
2.4.12.1.  Provide capability to collect, detect, identify, and monitor biological hazards 
for mission continuation during response and recovery operations across the range of 
military operations.  (T-1). 
2.4.12.2.  Serve 
as 
co-Office 
of 
Primary 
Responsibility 
with 
installation’s 
Bioenvironmental Engineering office in development of Biological Warfare Agent 
sampling strategies to include sampling protocols (monitoring period and sample 
handling procedures), locations, sample analysis, and decontamination procedures.  (T-3). 
10 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
2.4.12.3.  Provide educational materials and/or training on the installation’s non-medical 
biological collection, detection, and identification activities to key advisors and 
appropriate installation working groups (e.g. Installation Threat Working Group). (T-1). 
2.4.13.  Air National Guard Medical Units will:  As limited response capability (LRC) 
medical units, Guard Medical Units are only required to include biological agent aerosol 
identification capability in their IEMP or similar local plans if they are resourced to perform 
this function.  Medical personnel at Guard Medical Units are required to perform all 
functions specified in the IEMP or similar local plans.  Air National Guard medical personnel 
will continue to follow training guidance as specified in 36-series Air Force Instructions. 
 
 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
11 
Chapter 3 
POLICY CONCERNS 
3.1.  Policy Considerations.   In some cases, the guidance in this document and in Air Force 
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26 may differ from the guidance provided in Air Force 
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-2.44, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
for Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Reconnaissance and Surveillance. In those 
cases, the guidance in this publication must be followed and the guidance in Air Force Tactics, 
Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26 should be followed. Air Force organizations at all levels 
may encounter several situations throughout the biological agent detection and identification 
process that are not clearly defined.  In some cases clear-cut policies exist, while in other 
circumstances the Department of Defense has not published standardized guidelines.  In these 
instances of incomplete guidance, command leadership at each level will make decisions based 
on AFPD 10-26, the availability of relevant guidance, the situation at the time of execution, the 
projected impact of the decision on immediate and long-term critical mission operations, and the 
degree of risk involved. 
3.2.  Factors to Consider.   Commanders should consider the following factors when making 
decisions regarding the use of actual or suspected biologically contaminated resources and areas 
when uncontaminated alternatives (to include decontamination activities) do not exist, and 
personnel are unable to accomplish or sustain the mission/task while wearing the appropriate 
protective equipment. 
3.2.1.  Degree of certainty that resource/area has residual contamination present 
3.2.2.  Criticality of the mission/task in relation to total war effort 
3.2.3.  Time sensitive aspects of the mission/task e.g., can project be delayed 
3.2.4.  Vaccination status of people in relation to agent(s) involved 
3.2.5.  Virulence (severity of effects) of agent(s) involved 
3.2.6.  Communicability of the agent(s) involved from environment to person and from 
person-to-person 
3.2.7.  Availability and effectiveness of post-exposure medical countermeasures for agent(s) 
involved 
3.2.8.  Viability of the agent(s) in relation to the current and projected weather conditions—
for instance Yersinia pestis is expected to dissipate outdoors to the point that masks are not 
required beyond three hours after the attack on a hot, dry day. 
3.2.9.  See Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26 for an example decision 
aid for this area based on a comprehensive risk management approach. 
3.3.  Risk-Based Approach.   The Air Force uses a risk-based approach for biological defense 
actions and the following policy decisions support this strategy. 
 
 
12 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
3.3.1.  The installation commander has the authority to initiate prophylaxis when the benefits 
of doing so outweigh the possible negative results, such as individual reactions to 
medications, possible use of supplies that might be required later in the event etc., after 
consultation with appropriate medical representatives. (T-1) 
3.3.2.  The Air Force will use the best available resources to detect, collect, and identify 
biological agents.  Once an agent is identified with the best available technology, senior 
leadership will be provided recommendations for response measures based on the testing 
results accompanied by the caveats associated with the resources used to make that 
identification. 
3.3.3.  The Air Force has no accepted “central laboratory” responsibilities, but might be 
asked, as a Lab Response Network member, to process samples from sister service units.  
The installation commander may refuse samples from off-site locations if deemed 
detrimental to the installation detection and identification plan unless directed otherwise by 
the Air Component Commander or Combatant Commander. 
 
 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
13 
Chapter 4 
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE 
4.1.  Security Classification Guides.   There are a number of Security Classification Guides that 
apply to biological warfare-related items.  The primary Security Classification Guides Air Force 
personnel must comply with are the Chairman  of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 5225.01C, 
Classification Guide for Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (Combating Weapons of 
Mass Destruction) Information (classified document); Army Regulation 380-86, Classification of 
Former Chemical Warfare, Chemical and Biological Defense, and Nuclear, Biological, and 
Chemical Contamination Survivability Information; and the Critical Reagents Program Security 
Classification Guide. NOTE: Personnel must also maintain situational awareness of any 
applicable security classification guides that exist for specific biological detection systems. 
4.2.  Essential Elements of Friendly Information.   There are subject areas within the 
biological threat assessment and response profiles that are not necessarily classified but should 
be treated as Essential Elements of Friendly Information (EEFIs).  There are multiple EEFIs.  
Some more common examples are included below: 
4.2.1.  Number of sample collection teams available for each shift and/or time(s) Dry Filter 
Unit   filters are collected 
4.2.2.  Specific routes sample collection teams take when pulling Dry Filter Unit filters 
4.2.3.  Identification of agents in the Department of Defense Biological Detection kits being 
used at the location 
4.2.4.  Radio frequency the sample collection teams use to communicate with their control 
center 
4.2.5.  Shift change times if not staggered 
4.2.6.  Limitations in the collection network e.g., Dry Filter Unit   locations not covered by a 
functioning Dry Filter Unit 
4.2.7.  Laboratory limitations e.g., throughput restrictions, testing issues etc. 
4.2.8.  Installation specific responses to indicators to include when the network is established, 
when prophylaxis will be initiated etc. 
4.2.9.  Code translations used to transfer information between collection teams or from 
collection teams to the control center 
4.2.10.  Timing of when biological collection, detection, and identification assets are 
expected to arrive through the Time Phased Force Deployment List process. 
4.2.11.  Re-leveling of biological collection, detection, and identification assets either in or 
out of the location. 
4.2.12.  Specific locations of medical countermeasure Points of Distribution on the 
installation. 
4.2.13.  Limitations of pharmaceuticals in relation to specific agents. 
 
 
14 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
Chapter 5 
EDUCATION, TRAINING AND EXERCISES 
5.1.  Education and Training.   The Air Force’s revised biological collection, detection, and 
identification activities as described in this document will recommend education and training for 
several functional areas.  Biological agent aerosol collection and identification training is 
recommended either through Air Force awarding courses, supplemental training courses under 
the purview of the Air Education and Training Command and Air Force Material Command, 
included in Career Development courses, added to contingency training location curricula, 
reinforced during internal training sessions, or completed as “just-in-time training”.  This 
publication provides an agreed upon methodology for collection, detection, and identification of 
environmental samples that might contain biological warfare agents.  These samples can be 
collected anywhere and anytime a biological threat exists: during Military Contingency 
Operations, contingencies other than Military Contingency Operations, or during homeland 
defense operations. (T-1). 
5.1.1.  Biological collection, detection, and identification activities require a unified response 
across several functional areas to include the Public Health Emergency Officer, Emergency 
Management, Bioenvironmental Engineering, Public Health, Laboratory, medical senior 
leadership, Fire and Emergency Services, and others depending on the circumstances, to 
include civilian partners.  As such, educational materials and training courses should include 
the various functional area roles and responsibilities in the process, integration and overlap 
points, etc.  Successful protection of the force will depend upon having well-trained 
personnel capable of effectively handling the wide variety of potential scenarios across the 
threat spectrum e.g., attacks occurring early in the deployment process, not all functional 
areas or biological identification resources available at the site at the time of attack, etc. 
5.1.2.  Personnel assigned to Unit Type Codes FFBAT (Biological Augmentation Team) 
attend Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System Training (or current 
Polymerase Chain Reaction technology) within six months of initial assignment to the Unit 
Type Codes.  Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System Training is 
conducted at the U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School, Fort Sam Houston, 
Texas.  Formal Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System Training is a 
one-time requirement.  Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System 
proficiency/competency testing is required every 12 months.  Competency training is 
conducted using the Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System equipment 
system assigned locally to the MCRP team. (T-1). 
5.1.3.  Laboratory Biological Detection Team: Laboratory teams maintaining Joint Biological 
Agent Identification and Diagnostic System, will have at least 2 members of the team current 
in the requirements for each platform maintained.  Requirements for each platform include 
both completion of the Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System formal 
course and currency in the proficiency/competency program.  Formal course attendance is a 
one-time requirement.  Proficiency testing must be accomplished every 12 months by each 
member.  Note: testing occurs 6 times each year with 3 of these being physical samples 
requiring hands-on testing. (T-1). 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
15 
5.1.4.  Bioenvironmental Engineering  team members should conduct joint training with their 
Emergency Management counterparts on use of the hand-held assays, collection of air 
samples, etc. Bioenvironmental Engineering personnel receive additional training through the 
Bioenvironmental Engineering Readiness & Deployment Skills course. (T-3). 
5.1.5.  Emergency Management and Bioenvironmental Engineering personnel will provide 
educational materials and/or training on the installation’s biological collection, detection, and 
identification activities on an annual basis to key leadership and appropriate installation 
working groups (e.g. Installation Threat Working Group).  These actions will enable affected 
personnel to understand their role in the decision making process and facilitate the 
development of recommendations for senior leadership consideration. (T-3). 
5.1.6.  Public Health personnel will provide guidance on reporting diseases, in accordance 
with International, Federal, State and local laws, regulations, and guidance (reference Air 
Force Instruction 48-105). (T-1). 
5.2.  Exercises 
5.2.1.  Exercises should embody a realistic operational philosophy and should employ actual 
command relationships as much as possible.  Exercises should provide opportunities to 
assess installation capabilities consistent with safety, security, and overall exercise 
objectives.  When appropriate, exercises should also incorporate other requirements, such as 
logistics, support, force protection, and the ability to operate in a degraded/contaminated 
environment, including Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear environments.  
Whenever possible, exercises should seek to employ and evaluate current or proposed plans, 
policies, procedures, processes, and doctrine. 
5.2.2.  For AFRC units, the frequency for CBRN exercises should be a minimum of every 18 
months. 
 
MARK A. EDIGER, Lieutenant General, USAF, 
MC, CFS 
Surgeon General 
16 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Air Force Policy Directive 10-26, Air Force Emergency Management Program, 17 June 2015  
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015, AFGM 
15 February 2018. 
Air Force 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-10.26, Air Force Biological Agent Aerosol 
Collection and Identification, (To Be Determined, routed simultaneously) 
Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, July 2017 
Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02, Operations of the Defense Acquisition, 10 August 
2017 
Civil Engineering Supplement to War Mobilization Plan -1 Appendix 10, Readiness and 
Emergency Management and Appendix 11, Emergency Management 
Joint Publication 4-06, Mortuary Affairs in Joint Operations, 12 October 2011 
Air Force Instruction 10-206, Operational Reporting, 11 June 2014 
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-2.56, Multi-service tactics, techniques and 
procedures for Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Contamination Avoidance, 2 
February 2006 
Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-2.44, Multi-service Tactics, Techniques and 
Procedures for Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Reconnaissance and 
Surveillance, 1 March 2013 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 5225.01C, Classification Guide for Combating 
Weapons of Mass Destruction Information (classified document) 
Army Regulation 380-86, Classification of Former Chemical Warfare, Chemical and Biological 
Defense, and Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Contamination Survivability Information, 22 
Jun 2005 
Critical Reagents Program Security Classification Guide, 3 November 2005 
Air Force Instruction 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Disease and Conditions 
of Public Health or Military Significance, 19 January 2016 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
17 
Terms 
Biological Agent—A microorganism (or a toxin derived from it) that causes disease in 
personnel, plants, or animals or causes the deterioration of material. (DOD Dictionary of Military 
and Associated Terms). 
Biological Threat—A threat that consists of biological material planned to be deployed to 
produce casualties in personnel or animals or damage plants. (Joint Publication 3-11/DOD 
Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms). 
Biological Warfare—-Voluntary use of living organisms or their toxic products with the intent 
of killing or harming persons, useful animals or plants. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear—Operations that include chemical, 
biological, radiological, and nuclear, either individually or in combination. Collectively known 
as Weapons of Mass Destruction, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear replaces 
“Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical” when used in reference to operations or incidents limited to 
Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical-only issues. Toxic Industrial Material (TIM) and Hazardous 
Materials (HAZMAT) are considered part of Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Environment—An operational environment 
that includes chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats and hazards and their 
potential resulting effects. (Joint Publication 3-11/DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated 
Terms). 
Combatant Command—A unified or specified command with a broad continuing mission 
under a single commander established and so designated by the President, through the Secretary 
of Defense and with the advice and assistance of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (Joint 
Publication 1) 
Contaminated remains —Remains of personnel which have absorbed or upon which have been 
deposited radioactive material, or biological or chemical agents. (Joint Publication 4-06) 
Contamination—(1) The deposit, absorption, or adsorption of radioactive material or of 
biological or chemical agents on or by structures, areas, personnel, or objects, or in aerosolized 
clouds. (2) (DOD only) Food or water made unfit for consumption by humans or animals 
because of the presence of environmental chemicals, radioactive elements, bacteria, or 
organisms, the by-product of the growth of bacteria or organisms, the decomposing material (to 
include the food substance itself) or waste in the food or water. (DOD Dictionary of Military and 
Associated Terms). 
Decontamination—The process of making any person, object, or area safe by absorbing, 
destroying, neutralizing, making harmless, or removing chemical or biological agents, or by 
removing radioactive material clinging to or around it. (DOD Dictionary of Military and 
Associated Terms). 
 
 
18 
AFI10-2606  6 JULY 2018 
Detection—(1) In tactical operations, the perception of an object of possible military interest but 
unconfirmed by recognition. (2) In surveillance, the determination and transmission by a 
surveillance system that an incident has occurred. (3) In Chemical, Biological ,Radiological, and 
Nuclear environments, the act of locating Chemical, Biological ,Radiological, and Nuclear 
hazards by use of Chemical, Biological ,Radiological, and Nuclear detectors or monitoring 
and/or survey teams. (Joint Publication 3-11/DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated 
Terms). 
Environmental Sampling—Collecting environmental Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and 
Nuclear samples is described as obtaining a representative amount of the Chemical, Biological, 
Radiological, and Nuclear hazard for subsequent analysis later. Environmental samples are used 
to determine if a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear material has been released into 
the environment. These samples include air, water, soil, and vegetation. They can include 
liquids, solids, or vapors. They do not include clinical/medical specimens. (See Air Force 
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 3-2.44 for further detail) 
Essential Elements of Friendly Information (EEFI)—Key questions likely to be asked by 
adversary officials and intelligence systems about specific friendly intentions, capabilities, and 
activities, so they can obtain answers critical to their operational effectiveness. (Joint Publication 
2-01) 
Incident—An occurrence, natural or manmade, that requires a response to protect life or 
property. For example, incidents can include major disasters, emergencies, terrorist attacks, 
terrorist threats, civil unrest, wild land and urban fires, floods, hazardous material spills, nuclear 
accidents, aircraft accidents, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms, tsunamis, war-
related disasters, medical and public health emergencies, and other occurrences requiring an 
emergency response. 
Integrated Defense (ID)—The integration of multidisciplinary active and passive, offensive and 
defensive capabilities, employed to mitigate potential risks and defeat adversary threats to Air 
Force operations. (Air Force Policy Directive 31-1) 
Lab Response Network - A national security asset that, with its partners, will develop, maintain 
and strengthen an integrated domestic and international network of laboratories to respond 
quickly to biological, chemical, and radiological threats and other high priority public health 
emergencies needs through training, rapid testing, timely notification and secure messaging of 
laboratory results. 
Medical—Services performed, provided, or arranged to promote, improve, conserve, or restore 
the mental or physical well-being of personnel. 
Threat—Natural or manmade occurrence, individual, entity, or action that has or indicates the 
potential to harm life, information, operations, the environment, and/or property. 
 
 
