BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-217 
22 DECEMBER 2023 
Operations 
MANAGEMENT OF AIR FORCE 
OPERATIONAL TRAINING AND 
UNDERGRADUATE AIRCREW 
TRAINING SYSTEMS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e- Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3TI 
Certified by: AF/A3T  
(Major General Spain)
Supersedes: 
AFI16-1007, 1 October 2019 
Pages: 43 
 
 
This publication implements Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 10-2, 
Readiness. It provides guidance and procedures for managing, developing, and fielding operational 
training and undergraduate aircrew training systems. This publication applies to all civilian 
employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve Command 
(AFRC), the Air National Guard (ANG), and those with a contractual obligation to abide by the 
terms of United States Air Force (USAF) issuances.  This instruction does not apply to the United 
States Space Force (USSF).  Conflicts between this instruction and Joint Program Office (JPO) 
direction will be reconciled by the F-35 Integration Office (AF/IO), Air Combat Command (Lead 
Command), and the JPO.  The authorities to waive wing, unit, delta, or garrison level requirements 
in this publication are identified with a Tier number (“T-0, T-1, T- 2, T-3”) following the 
compliance statement. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the 
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, through the chain of command to the 
publication office of primary responsibility for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure all records 
generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 
(AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in 
accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air 
Force Records Information Management System.  Refer recommended changes and questions 
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the Department of the Air Force 
(DAF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the 
field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Major commands (MAJCOM), field 
2 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
operating agencies, and direct reporting units may supplement this instruction after review and 
coordination by AF/A3TI. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  It supersedes AFI16-1007; 
1 October 2019. This revision reflects the activation of USSF as a service and removes the space 
mission from the USAF; standardizes USAF to denote the Air Force service IAW Department of 
the Air Force Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publications Processes and Procedures. Tiering and 
compliance statements are IAW Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force 
recommendations. It includes new or modified guidance on operational training, operational 
training and undergraduate aircrew training systems, training system responsibilities and 
management, and reporting on training systems.  Changes include a category for Synthetic 
Environment certification, institutes standards and criteria for capturing simulator utilization data 
(see attachment 4), and includes unclassified threat matrix framework (TMF) information (see 
attachment 6). 
 
Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
4 
1.1. 
Purpose.....................................................................................................................  
4 
1.2. 
Scope. .......................................................................................................................  
4 
1.3. 
Operational Training Concepts. ...............................................................................  
4 
Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
6 
2.1. 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
(SAF/MR): ...............................................................................................................  
6 
2.2. 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ): ...............................................................................................................  
6 
2.3. 
Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA): ............  
6 
2.4. 
Department of the Air Force Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN): .......................  
6 
2.5. 
Department of the Air Force Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer 
(SAF/CND): .............................................................................................................  
6 
2.6. 
Department of the Air Force Chief Modeling and Simulation Officer 
(SAF/CMSO): ..........................................................................................................  
6 
2.7. 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1): ....................  
6 
2.8. 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance (ISR), and 
Cyber Effects Operations (AF/A2/6): ......................................................................  
6 
2.9. 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) will: ....................................................  
6 
2.10. 
Chief, Operational Training Infrastructure Division (AF/A3TI) will: .....................  
7 
2.11. 
Commander, Air Force Modeling and Simulation Agency (AFAMS) will: ...........  
8 
2.12. 
Lead Commands Will: .............................................................................................  
8 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
3 
2.13. 
Using Commands will: ............................................................................................  
13 
2.14. 
MAJCOMs, National Guard Bureau, Direct Reporting Units, and Field Operating 
Agencies will: ..........................................................................................................  
13 
2.15. 
Training Planning Team (TPT) will: .......................................................................  
15 
2.16. 
Training System Support Center (TSSC). ...............................................................  
16 
2.17. 
Host Unit. .................................................................................................................  
16 
Chapter 3—PLANNING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
 
17 
3.1. 
Advocacy. ................................................................................................................  
17 
3.2. 
Planning. ..................................................................................................................  
17 
3.3. 
Reporting. ................................................................................................................  
17 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
18 
Attachment 2—TRAINING SYSTEMS REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS 
 
28 
Attachment 3—SYSTEM TRAINING PLAN 
 
30 
Attachment 4—TRAINING SYSTEM METRICS 
 
37 
Attachment 5—TRAINING SYSTEM SIMULATOR AND SYNTHETIC ENVIRONMENT 
CERTIFICATION AND SIMULATOR VALIDATION 
 
39 
Attachment 6—THREAT MATRIX FRAMEWORK (TMF) 
 
42 
 
4 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Chapter 1 
GENERAL INFORMATION 
1.1.  Purpose.  This instruction provides guidance, identifies organizational responsibilities, and 
describes processes for managing USAF operational training systems and undergraduate aircrew 
training systems. 
1.2.  Scope.  The following operational training systems and associated training devices are 
covered by this AFI: 
1.2.1.  Aircrew training systems: Includes aeromedical evacuation, physiological training, and 
undergraduate aircrew training systems. 
1.2.2.  Missile procedures training systems: Includes missile   procedures trainers, minuteman 
enhanced procedures trainers, airborne procedures trainers, and countdown procedures 
trainers. 
1.2.3.  Cyberspace training systems. 
1.2.4.  Mission system training systems: Includes Joint Terminal Attack Controller (JTAC), 
Air Support Operations Center, Control and Reporting Center, Air Operations Center (AOC), 
Air Traffic Control, and those systems which are not considered aircrew training, Cyberspace 
training, or missile procedures training systems. 
1.3.  Operational Training Concepts. 
1.3.1.  Live (real people operating real weapon systems), virtual (real people operating 
simulated systems), and constructive (computer generated entities) are foundational domains 
for operational training.  Live, synthetic, and blended training environments are defined by 
their use of live, virtual, and/or constructive capabilities.  Live training environments can 
include either virtual or constructive assets. Synthetic training environments include virtual 
and/or constructive capabilities, and may be in a networked or non-networked environment. 
When live and synthetic environments are combined, the training environment is blended. 
1.3.2.  The Operational Training Infrastructure (OTI) framework tailors a balanced mix of 
capabilities to create the most affordable and effective training environments for warfighters 
with the intent of maximizing readiness. The OTI framework includes live ranges, threat 
emitters, aggressors, networks, training centers, and multi-domain command and control 
training systems. 
1.3.3.  Effective operational training includes an efficient balance of live and synthetic 
approaches. Synthetic training solutions should be used to replace or augment live training to 
the maximum extent practicable where training effectiveness and readiness are not 
compromised, recognizing that some live training events cannot or should not be replaced by 
synthetic training. 
1.3.4.  The Operational Training and Test Infrastructure (OTTI) framework consists of the 
resources essential to accomplishing USAF operational training and testing (which includes 
both operational and developmental test) objectives.  This encompasses such elements as 
embedded training and testing capabilities, operational training systems, airspace, ranges and 
off-range lands, scoring and feedback systems, targets, pods/instrumentation/weapon system 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
5 
interface devices, aggressors/contract air support, threat environment generators, networks, 
synthetic environments, operational training centers, workforce, and cybersecurity.  OTI is 
therefore a sub-set of OTTI and the focus of this AFI. 
1.3.5.  The TMF provides measurable criteria to apply to development of an integrated, 
interoperable, and scalable architecture that enables tailored and adjustable threat 
environments (expanded information on TMF levels is contained in attachment 6). 
6 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
(SAF/MR):  Responsible for military training policy matters. 
2.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ):  Serves as the Air Force Service Acquisition Executive for all USAF programs and 
oversees all related acquisition programs through the Program Executive Officers. The program 
executive officers directly influence OTI through the acquisition and sustainment of training 
systems for USAF warfighters and the USAF’s undergraduate aircrew training enterprise. 
2.3.  Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA):  Coordinates 
on policy for international training partners to gain access to USAF OTI and events and provides 
release authority for classified and unclassified information to foreign training partners. 
2.4.  Department of the Air Force Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN):  Develops, 
coordinates, and executes USAF information technology policy, strategy, guidance, and oversight 
for the management of data, information technology systems, and communication networks IAW 
applicable Office of the Secretary of Defense guidance and DAF 17- & 33-series publications. 
Chief Information Officer oversight of non-sensitive compartmented information (SCI) networks 
provides an essential infrastructure capability for distributed operational training by joining distant 
and disparate training audiences.  Approve the Authorizing Official for operational training 
systems. 
2.5.  Department of the Air Force Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer 
(SAF/CND):  Develops, coordinates, and executes USAF data and artificial intelligence policy, 
strategy, guidance, and oversight of USAF data management. 
2.6.  Department 
of 
the 
Air 
Force 
Chief 
Modeling 
and 
Simulation 
Officer 
(SAF/CMSO):  Provides policy, guidance, and oversight for DAF’s modeling and simulation 
communities. 
2.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1):  Develops, 
coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural guidance for military training 
(non-flying) programs. 
2.8.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance (ISR), and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6):  Develops, coordinates, and executes USAF Intelligence 
Community information technology policy, strategy, guidance, and oversight for the management 
of ISR data, SCI ISR networks, and cyber effects operations IAW applicable Office of the Director 
of National Intelligence guidance and DAF 14-series and 17-series publications. 
2.9.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) will: 
2.9.1.  Nominate an Authorizing Official for Operational Training systems to SAF/CN for 
appointment IAW Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8510.01, Risk Management 
Framework (RMF) for DoD Information Technology (IT). The Authorizing Official will be a 
general officer or senior executive service civilian. Authorizing Official responsibilities will 
be specifically limited to the IT portion of training devices, training aids, models, environment 
generators, ranges, and systems. The Authorizing Official will designate and ensure the AF/A3 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
7 
is manned to provide a Security Control Assessor (SCA) and associated SCA Representatives. 
The SCA is the senior official with the authority and responsibility for the certification of 
assigned or applicable USAF-governed OTI systems and platform information technology 
systems.  The SCA will work with Air Combat Command Communications Directorate 
(ACC/A6) for certification for any Operational Training systems that connect to the Air Force 
Integrated Telecommunications Network.  The SCA and SCA Representatives will report to 
the Authorizing Official. 
2.9.2.  Act as the training funding advocate for aircrew training systems, missile training 
systems, cyber training systems, and mission system training systems. 
2.9.3.  Establish policy and guidance for OTI. 
2.10.  Chief, Operational Training Infrastructure Division (AF/A3TI) will: 
2.10.1.  Synchronize operational training system and undergraduate aircrew training system 
requirements and acquisition strategies with appropriate Secretary of the Air Force (SAF), Air 
Staff, industry, and program executive officer organizations. 
2.10.2.  Advocate for operational training systems and undergraduate aircrew training system 
funding and requirements at SAF, Air Staff, Military Departments, Interagency, and Multi-
national processes IAW Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capability Requirements 
Development. 
2.10.3.  Consolidate operational training system and undergraduate aircrew training system 
funding information from Air Staff functional managers and Program Element Monitors to 
track USAF-wide operational training system funding status. 
2.10.4.  Monitor and attend program management reviews, technical interchange meetings, 
standards working groups, and other training or readiness forums to ensure adherence to 
established operational training policy and guidance. 
2.10.5.  Establish policy to ensure sharing of government-owned data, databases, modeling and 
simulation solutions, and other capabilities to reduce or prevent redundant efforts. 
2.10.6.  Synchronize MAJCOM efforts to minimize multiple independent USAF networks. 
2.10.7.  Appoint a training system manager to oversee management of operational training 
systems and undergraduate aircrew training systems. 
2.10.7.1.  The training system manager will interface with subject matter experts (SME) 
across MAJCOMs, total force, joint, and coalition on operational training systems and 
undergraduate aircrew training systems. Further, the training system manager will analyze 
MAJCOM reports to provide advocacy to the corporate process. 
2.10.7.2.  Training system manager will champion the resourcing of concurrency, fidelity, 
and connectivity of operational training systems and undergraduate aircrew training 
systems. The training system manager will conduct annual data calls to assess the health 
of the USAF training system enterprise. 
2.10.8.  Advocate for OTI requirements, technology, and planning throughout the Joint 
Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) IAW Chairman of the Joint  Chiefs 
of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 5123.01I, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council 
8 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
(JROC) and Implementation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 
and AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Documentation and Validation. 
2.10.9.  As co-chair of the OTTI Capability Development Team, advocate for the broader 
OTTI requirements (see paragraph 1.3.4.) and synchronize overlapping developmental and 
operational test requirements with Capability Development Team co-chair, Air Force Test and 
Evaluation Programs and Policy (AF/TEP). 
2.11.  Commander, Air Force Modeling and Simulation Agency (AFAMS) will: 
2.11.1.  Develop capability-based modeling and simulation (M&S) requirements in support of 
Training and Readiness. 
2.11.2.  Oversee all components of the Air, Space, and Cyberspace Constructive Environment, 
as well as follow-on efforts.  This includes providing oversight of user test and integration 
efforts. 
2.11.3.  Monitor and attend program management reviews, technical interchange meetings, 
standards working groups, and other training or readiness forums to champion transformation 
capabilities. 
2.11.4.  Synchronize MAJCOM efforts to ensure sharing of government-owned datasets, 
databases, modeling and simulation solutions, and other capabilities to reduce or prevent 
redundant efforts. 
2.11.5.  Provide support to the SAF/CN-designated OTTI Authorizing Official for Risk 
Management Framework assessments and authorizations. 
2.12.  Lead Commands Will: 
2.12.1.  Establish training system management structures to holistically plan, fund, and 
manage training systems and associated distributed training capabilities (for example, 
distributed mission operations (DMO)) as part of an OTI framework, to include ensuring 
training system requirements are included in the Air Force Corporate Structure program 
objective memorandum process.  Lead commands will ensure the major weapon system or 
prime mission system will not be modified or upgraded unless funding is sufficient to also 
modify/upgrade all impacted aspects of the operational training system or undergraduate 
aircrew training system IAW DAFPD 10-9, Lead Command/Lead Agent Designation and 
Responsibilities for United States Air Force Weapon Systems, Non-Weapon Systems, and 
Activities.   
2.12.2.  Manage training requirements by: 
2.12.2.1.  Establishing aircrew, mission, missile, and cyberspace crew training 
requirements and document in system training plans (STP) and/or concept documents.  The 
STP is an iterative planning document that defines the justification, design, development, 
funding, resources, support, modification, operation, and management of a training system. 
For fielded systems, the STP may be a stand-alone document, or it may be referenced and 
summarized in the Life Cycle Sustainment Plan or other Human Systems Integration 
documents. All references to the STP in this document incorporate the possibility that the 
intended documentation may be part of a Life Cycle Sustainment Plan or Human Systems 
Integration documents. Training considerations prior to fielding will be addressed in 
coordination with the prime mission system/weapons system platform or separate training 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
9 
system program manager.  Expanded information on the STP is contained in attachment 
3. 
2.12.2.2.  Defining training system life cycle (development through sustainment) 
requirements IAW AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management. 
2.12.2.3.  Establishing training system standards, tasks, and requirements in coordination 
with Air Force career field managers, functional area managers, MAJCOM functional 
managers, training pipeline managers, and Air Education and Training Command (AETC) 
training managers, when applicable, IAW DAFMAN 36-2689, Training Program. 
2.12.2.4.  Setting requirements for, and leading training system requirements analysis 
(TSRA) and STP development and execution, in coordination with Air Force Life Cycle 
Management Center (AFLCMC), AETC, and using commands, as warranted. 
2.12.2.5.  Conducting TSRAs, in coordination with using commands, through the prime 
mission system program office, Training System Program Office (SPO), acquisition 
program office, or AETC.  The TSRA process is designed to derive and allocate training 
requirements from user identified operational needs.  A TSRA integrates the products of 
the instructional system development process and the systems engineering process to 
describe the training system to be procured. The TSRA process results in a written record 
of the compilation and distillation of four complementary elements, including the mission-
task analysis, training requirements analysis, media analysis, and the training systems basis 
analysis.  Review standing TSRAs every 5 years, or sooner if changes to the system or 
training environment dictates, to determine if TSRA modifications are required.  The lead 
command makes final decision on whether a TSRA update or modification will be 
undertaken.  Expanded information on the TSRA is contained in attachment 2 of this AFI. 
2.12.2.6.  Maintaining prime mission system requirements, including those validated 
through the JCIDS process. 
2.12.2.7.  Reviewing prime mission system, product group, and MAJCOM standards 
impacting training system requirements, annually. 
2.12.2.8.  Prioritizing requirements using USAF-approved criteria following Air Force 
Materiel Command (AFMC) procedures as defined in Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 63-
143, Centralized Asset Management Procedures. 
2.12.2.9.  Establishing MAJCOM policy and requirements that reflect the sharing, 
validation, and reuse of visual (image generator), computer generated forces (CGF) 
models, threat databases, weapons modeling, and associated databases, etc. to gain 
efficiencies and enhance interoperability. 
2.12.2.10.  Semi-annually report simulator utilization metrics on all contracted weapon 
system platform training systems. Forward reports to AF/A3TI by 30 April for the prior 
semi-annual period October through March and by 31 October for the prior semi-annual 
period April through September. Reference attachment 4. 
2.12.3.  Support using commands by: 
2.12.3.1.  Assisting with development of command requirements and specifications. 
10 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
2.12.3.2.  Identifying the best mix of live and synthetic training capabilities (networked or 
non-networked) to accomplish training requirements. 
2.12.4.  Support prime mission system and training system program management by: 
2.12.4.1.  Providing guidance and assistance to program managers in the development, 
acquisition, and sustainment of training systems and associated distributed training 
capabilities (for example, DMO). 
2.12.4.2.  Ensuring the training system is available, network-capable, if applicable, and 
compliant with required standards prior to fielding the prime mission system. 
2.12.4.3.  Defining training system requirements for the prime mission system fielding 
strategy. 
2.12.4.4.  Notifying the training system program manager of weapon system modifications 
to ensure training system concurrency. 
2.12.4.5.  Coordinating with Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center or 
MAJCOM operational test organizations to guide program managers on test or operational 
issues for the acquisition and sustainment of training systems. 
2.12.4.6.  Informing program managers of databases, models, and other enterprise 
capabilities available to increase interoperability and reduce costs. 
2.12.4.7.  Assessing approved Air Force Forms 1067, Modification Proposal, training 
system impacts and budget estimate with the program manager before the modification 
proceeds. 
2.12.4.8.  Establishing and maintaining an administrative control process to record and 
track evaluations of the training system, to include any simulator and synthetic 
environment certification or simulator validation (see attachment 5). 
2.12.4.9.  Providing information and assistance to the program manager for development 
and modifications to the Systems Engineering Plan, Materiel Fielding Plan, Acquisition 
Strategy, and other applicable acquisition documents to ensure operational training is 
appropriately considered in the acquisition process. See AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life 
Cycle Management, for additional guidance with respect to planning for training in the 
acquisition process. 
2.12.4.10.  Designating in writing an Information System Security Officer (ISSO) and 
alternate to ensure cybersecurity compliance. 
2.12.5.  Manage simulator and synthetic environment certification programs by: 
2.12.5.1.  Coordinating with appropriate agencies (i.e., using command, AFLCMC and/or 
product or materiel group) to establish simulator/synthetic environment certification 
requirements based on training device complexity, desired level of creditable training 
events, and industry accepted standards, such as Federal Aviation Administration 
standards, to include training tasks, criteria, and certification interval. Simulator/synthetic 
environment certifications examine fidelity and usability characteristics to support training 
system accreditation and identify capabilities and limitations. Expanded information on 
simulator/synthetic environment certification is contained in attachment 5 of this AFI. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
11 
2.12.5.2.  Ensuring all system types receive simulator/synthetic environment certification 
at least once every 48 months. Certification procedures and documentation will comply 
with guidance in USAF 10-series and USAF 11-series publications and MAJCOM 
guidance.  Ensuring simulator/synthetic environment certification procedures confirm that 
enterprise standard solutions integrated into training systems comply with enterprise 
standards (for example, motion or visual systems are current with enterprise standard for 
that model). 
2.12.5.3.  Allocating 
and 
providing 
funding 
to 
accomplish 
simulator/synthetic 
environment certification actions. 
2.12.5.4.  Designating a simulator/synthetic environment certification agent who will: 
2.12.5.4.1.  Establish deadlines for initial certification of newly delivered devices, upon 
fielding major modifications, or after relocation of devices. 
2.12.5.4.2.  Perform a simulator/synthetic environment certification IAW lead 
command or MAJCOM guidance. 
2.12.5.4.3.  Document training system simulator/synthetic environment certification 
status. Lead command guidance will be used to establish further procedures, processes, 
and requirements. Resources for conducting training system simulator/synthetic 
environment certification will be provided by the lead command. 
2.12.5.4.4.  Provide simulator/synthetic environment certification results and the 
accreditation recommendation to the lead command, or designated accreditation 
proponent, for review. 
2.12.5.5.  Responding to simulator/synthetic environment certification agent reports within 
14 days, through a designated accreditation proponent if desired and appropriate. 
2.12.6.  Manage simulator validation programs by: 
2.12.6.1.  Being the validation authority and ensuring CGFs or human-in-the-loop (HITL) 
for specific training systems are accredited. 
2.12.6.2.  Establishing training system simulator validation requirements and evaluation 
criteria based on training device complexity, desired TMF level of creditable training 
events, and industry accepted standards such as Federal Aviation Administration standards, 
to include training tasks, criteria, and simulator validation interval.  Training system 
simulator validations compare a training device’s operating parameters and performance 
to constructive interactions to ensure highest-fidelity training. Expanded information on 
simulator validation is contained in attachment 5 of this AFI.  Expanded information on 
TMF levels is contained in attachment 6. 
2.12.6.3.  Being the validation proponent for training systems procured or sustained by the 
respective lead command. 
2.12.6.4.  Allocating and providing funding to accomplish simulator validation actions. 
2.12.6.5.  Informing using commands about training system changes that will impact 
accreditation and if a complete or partial simulator validation is required. 
12 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
2.12.6.6.  Using the training system simulator validation control process to record training 
system simulator validation results related to CGF configurations. 
2.12.6.7.  Reviewing the results of simulator validations and ensure CGF accreditation for 
the specific training system. 
2.12.6.8.  Designating a simulator validation agent.  The agent will perform validations as 
directed by the lead command and provide results to the lead command for accreditation 
approval. 
2.12.6.9.  Ensuring all training system types (flight, mission, part-task, etc.) receive 
simulator validation at least once every 48 months. Validation procedures and 
documentation will comply with guidance in USAF 16-series and USAF 10-series 
publications. 
2.12.7.  Manage training system use, distribution, and disposition. 
2.12.8.  Provide resources required to obtain and maintain cybersecurity certification and 
Authority to Operate, and Authority to Connect. 
2.12.9.  Designate SMEs for the training system. 
2.12.10.  Provide SME support for contract performance evaluations and government 
acceptance testing. 
2.12.11.  In coordination with the program manager and using command, provide 
representation at source selections, technical reviews and audits, program management 
reviews, technical interchange meetings, contract award conferences, training system working 
groups, testing and logistics interchange meetings, and facility design and construction 
meetings. 
2.12.12.  Chair the Training Planning Team (TPT). 
2.12.13.  Define the scope and support requirements of the Training System Support Center 
(TSSC), as required. 
2.12.14.  Develop, maintain, and review the STP for all lead-command major weapon systems. 
2.12.15.  Ensure the training system is included in the major weapon system modification 
budgeting profile, maintains concurrency, cybersecurity accreditation, addresses diminishing 
manufacturing sources and material shortages, and complies with networked training and 
synthetic environment integration standards. 
2.12.16.  Ensure future aircraft operational training systems used for synthetic high-end 
advanced tactics and training integrate with the Joint Simulation Environment (JSE). 
2.12.17.  Accomplish biennial program reviews of each legacy training system used for high-
end tactics and training to determine the appropriate degree of JSE integration.  At a minimum, 
future modifications to legacy high-end training systems should consider JSE compatibility. 
2.12.18.  Provide guidance to fund and provide Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) 
positions, on-site and on-call, for their assigned training enterprises.  The COR performs 
oversight for the contracting officer. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
13 
2.12.19.  Unit manning document billets generated to support a training system will remain 
assigned to that system and will not be re-assigned to perform other purposes in the unit.  
Personnel filling that billet may perform additional duties on a non-interference basis. 
2.12.20.  Report training system data on all assigned weapon system platforms to the AF/A3TI 
training system manager no later than 31 January (annually). Specific requirements will be 
detailed in the AF/A3TI tasking message (see paragraph 3.3.1.). 
2.12.21.  Take appropriate program objective memorandum actions to replace existing orphan 
training systems before those training systems can no longer meet training needs due to 
obsolescence or serviceability. 
2.12.22.  Provide concepts of operation, force development concepts, operational roadmaps, 
and applicable operations training requirements. 
2.12.23.  Provide updates on training capabilities and infrastructure development which impact 
training system planning. 
2.12.24.  Implement a training device fleet flying hour program.  Provide “Available Hours 
Contracted for Use” from Training System Metrics (Item C from Figure A4.1), which are 
reported semi-annually to AF/A3TI, to AFLCMC on the same schedule for Operational Cost 
per Training System Flying Hour calculations. 
2.12.25.  Ensure safety requirements for training systems comply with DAFMAN 91-203, Air 
Force Occupational Safety, Fire, and Health Standards. 
2.13.  Using Commands will: 
2.13.1.  Identify training and operational training system requirements to the lead command 
for advocacy, programming, and funding. 
2.13.2.  Designate in writing an ISSO and alternate to ensure cybersecurity compliance. 
2.13.3.  Submit reporting information to the lead command as directed in this AFI. 
2.13.4.  Identify technology gaps and operational requirements to the lead command to 
facilitate sustainment support and identify trainer sustainment requirements in conjunction 
with all mission design series and training system requirements.   
2.13.5.  Assume lead command responsibilities for simulator/synthetic environment 
certification and simulator validation when the operational training system is unique to a 
respective using command.  Simulator/synthetic environment certification and simulator 
validation procedures will comply with guidance in AFI 16-1001, Verification, Validation and 
Accreditation (VV&A). 
2.13.6.  Fund repairs on all command-unique training devices not associated with prime 
mission systems, including obsolescent systems where training system parts are no longer 
procurable or available through original equipment manufacturer. 
2.14.  MAJCOMs, National Guard Bureau, Direct Reporting Units, and Field Operating 
Agencies will:  Assume both using command and lead command responsibilities for training 
systems developed or acquired by those commands to meet unique training needs. 
2.14.1.  Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will: 
14 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
2.14.1.1.  Act as the USAF’s Executive Agent for formal, undergraduate training programs 
technology and development, for which AETC is the lead command. 
2.14.1.2.  Advocate for distributed training/remote instruction capabilities in formal 
education and training under its command. 
2.14.1.2.1.  Ensure training systems requirements are addressed from the start of the 
program by membership on the TPTs with other system stakeholders as early in the 
system concept as possible. 
2.14.1.2.2.  Ensure AETC TPT participation directly supporting SME participation for 
the development of the STP and TSRA. 
2.14.1.2.3.  Establish a command position for training system requirements and 
resources required to meet AETC’s training requirements. 
2.14.1.2.4.  Establish AETC TPT support teams to develop, support, and maintain each 
training system. 
2.14.1.2.5.  Monitor new acquisitions, modifications, or changes to the weapon system 
managed by the acquisition SPO that affect training systems and equipment. These 
SPO activities include fielded training systems that require the development of 
requirements documents IAW AFI 10-601. 
2.14.1.3.  Provide advice and expertise to the lead command, program manager, and TPTs. 
2.14.1.4.  Perform TSRAs, when requested by the lead command, in coordination with the 
TPT. 
2.14.1.5.  Semi-annually report simulator utilization metrics on all contracted 
undergraduate aircrew training systems.  Forward reports to AF/A3TI by 30 April for the 
prior semi-annual period October through March and by 31 October for the prior semi-
annual period April through September. Reference Attachment 4. 
2.14.1.6.  Accomplish simulator/synthetic environment certification of undergraduate 
training aircraft simulators IAW paragraph 2.12.5 and attachment 5. 
2.14.1.7.  Report training system data on all assigned undergraduate aircrew platforms to 
the AF/A3TI training system manager no later than 31 January (annually).  Specific 
requirements will be detailed in the AF/A3TI tasking message (see paragraph 3.3.1.). 
2.14.2.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will: 
2.14.2.1.  Coordinate lead command and prime mission system program offices’ training 
system requirements and solutions.   Provide support to SPOs responsible for training 
system acquisition and sustainment through the parent prime mission systems program 
office(s) and/or AFLCMC. 
2.14.2.2.  With AFLCMC and Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Warfighter 
Readiness Research Division, provide technical support to AF/A3TI. 
2.14.2.3.  Manage sustainment fund programming and allocation through AFMC 
centralized asset management. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
15 
2.14.2.4.  Ensure prime mission system modification development in tandem with the 
training system to ensure concurrency. 
2.14.3.  Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) will: 
2.14.3.1.  Perform training system contract management, support (including TSSC 
establishment), relocation, and disposition activities. 
2.14.3.2.  Host an All-Command simulator/training device summit to review training 
system status and discuss lessons learned, potential program synergies, training 
opportunities, advocacy issues, and future technology needs.  Consider holding the summit 
in conjunction with a training system industry day. 
2.14.3.3.  Through the simulator SPO, acquisition program office, or AETC, and in 
coordination with the lead command, conduct TSRAs. 
2.14.3.4.  Assume 
Planning, 
Programming, 
Budgeting, 
and 
Execution 
System 
responsibility for active contractor logistics support, and operations and maintenance. 
2.14.3.5.  Provide programmed contractor logistics support to all fielded operational 
training systems, including programs of record and interim devices. 
2.14.3.6.  Lead training system research and development and develop or assist with use 
case demonstrations and training program and exercise integration. 
2.14.3.7.  Work with Lead MAJCOMs to ensure training systems comply with architecture 
standards and maintain common interfaces for integration into high-end synthetic 
environments to support large force events. 
2.14.3.8.  Support 
JCIDS 
documentation 
and 
supporting 
analyses, 
technical 
documentation and validation regarding training efforts, and training system and support 
service integration and procurement. 
2.14.3.9.  Ensure the ISSO assists the Program Management Office-appointed Information 
System Security Manager to complete Risk Management Framework Assessment and 
Authorization packages and serve as the focal point for cybersecurity compliance involving 
networked (for example, DMO) and non-networked activities. 
2.14.3.10.  Provide resources required to obtain and maintain cybersecurity certification 
and Authority to Operate. 
2.14.3.11.  Capture Operations & Support costs from current contracts to the extent 
practical.  Establish and maintain a methodology for Materiel Leaders and Lead Commands 
to jointly report annual Operational Cost per Training System Flying Hours by training 
device fleet. 
2.15.  Training Planning Team (TPT) will: 
2.15.1.  Develop the STP after the TSRA is completed. 
2.15.2.  Provide guidance on master task list content, as warranted. 
2.15.3.  Use the STP to ensure training considerations are adequately addressed in the prime 
mission system acquisition and modification processes.  The STP is an iterative planning 
document that defines the justification, design, development, funding, resources, support, 
16 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
modification, operation, and management of an operational training system. The STP also 
provides instructional considerations and usage to maximize use as an effective educational 
tool.  Expanded information on the STP is contained in Attachment 3 of this AFI. 
2.16.  Training System Support Center (TSSC).  The TSSC will provide configuration 
management functions, engineering development, feasibility studies, life cycle hardware, 
software, and courseware support for the operational training system. 
2.17.  Host Unit.  The host unit (the unit with primary responsibility for the systems) will: 
2.17.1.  Provide guidance for the unit’s training system and assign personnel for COR duty, 
on-site and on-call, for their assigned training system. (T-2) 
2.17.2.  Fund travel for training system training and COR certification training. (T-2) 
2.17.3.  Provide personnel to support training system testing. (T-2) 
2.17.4.  Maintain training system simulator utilization records and report utilization data to 
lead command monthly (supports lead command requirement to report simulator utilization 
data IAW paragraph 2.12.2.10 and attachment 4). (T-2) 
2.17.5.  Debrief maintenance technicians after each training period and provide documentation 
of  all discrepancies in the method prescribed by the system sustainment plan or contract. (T-2)  
Missile procedures training device discrepancy forms may be developed locally. 
2.17.6.  Ensure the ISSO assists the Program Management Office-appointed Information 
System Security Manager to complete Risk Management Framework Assessment and 
Authorization packages and serve as the focal point for cybersecurity compliance involving 
networked (for example, DMO) and non-networked activities. (T-0) 
2.17.7.  Ensure local communications support for distributed training capabilities. (T-2) 
2.17.8.  Secure training system facilities to the extent necessary to allow for required classified 
training. (T-2) 
2.17.9.  Ensure facilities are accredited and maintain security accreditation for the 
simulator/training device and training operations hosted within the facility. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
17 
Chapter 3 
PLANNING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
3.1.  Advocacy.  AF/A3TI supports readiness by ensuring OTI addresses training requirements 
balanced with affordability. Training system status information from the field is used to advocate 
in support of OTI capabilities and readiness. 
3.2.  Planning.  Lead commands accomplish training system planning to ensure training 
requirements are met and adjusted over time for changes that occur. The process evaluates training 
system requirements against current and projected training system capabilities to identify 
shortfalls, and then to guide sustainable development to mitigate these shortfalls. This process 
results in lead command plans for training systems that are formulated and updated on a recurring 
basis. 
3.2.1.  Lead commands will ensure that all appropriate forums consider all training systems. 
(T-1) 
3.2.2.  As a minimum, operational training systems will be included in all training review 
activities. (T-1) Undergraduate aircrew training systems should be included in all 
undergraduate training review activities.  Training review boards and Weapons and Tactics 
Conferences are leveraged to maximize the quality of unit training and convene (usually 
annually) to update training events, frequency, and standards. 
3.2.3.  When training roadmaps are updated, lead commands will ensure the updated 
documents are delivered to AF/A3TI. (T-1)  Roadmaps should include training systems 
location, prime mission, training system modifications over the next 5 years, and known 
shortfalls or funding disconnects. 
3.3.  Reporting. 
3.3.1.  AF/A3TI will conduct one data call per year to gather detailed information on the 
training system enterprise; specific requirements will be detailed in the tasking message. 
AF/A3 will use the data collected to assess the synthetic training enterprise against established 
OTI metrics based on the TMF (expanded information on TMF levels is contained in 
Attachment 6). 
3.3.2.  MAJCOMs will semi-annually report simulator utilization metrics as prescribed in 
paragraph 2.12.2.10., paragraph 2.14.1.5, and in attachment 4. (T-1) 
 
JAMES C. SLIFE 
Lieutenant General, United States Air Force 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
18 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
CJCSI 5123.01I, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council and Implementation of the 
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 30 October 2021 
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework, 23 January 2020, Change 1, 8 
June 2022 
DoDI 8510.01, Risk Management Framework (RMF) for DoD Information Technology (IT), 19 
July 2022 
DAFPD 10-2, Readiness, 20 May 2021 
DAFPD 10-9, Lead Command/Lead Agent Designation and Responsibilities for United States 
Air Force Weapon Systems, Non-Weapon Systems, and Activities, 25 May 2021 
DAFMAN 36-2689, Training Program, 31 March 2023 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publications Processes and Procedures, 18 October 2023 
DAFMAN 91-203, Air Force Occupational Safety Fire and Health Standards, 25 March 2022 
AFPD 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 
AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 August 2018 
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Documentation and Validation, 27 April 
2021 
AFI 16-1001, Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A), 29 April 2020 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 Mar 2020 
AFMAN 63-143, Centralized Asset Management Procedures, 18 December 2020 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AETC—Air Education and Training Command 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory 
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
19 
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command 
ANG—Air National Guard 
AOC—Air Operations Center 
CGF—Computer Generated Forces 
COR—Contracting Officer’s Representative 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFMAN—Department of the Air Force Manual 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force Instruction 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DMO—Distributed Mission Operations 
ESOH—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health 
HITL—Human-In-The-Loop 
IAW—In Accordance With 
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 
ISSO—Information System Security Officer 
IT—Information Technology 
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System 
JPO—Joint Program Office 
JSE—Joint Simulation Environment 
JTAC—Joint Terminal Attack Controller 
OTI—Operational Training Infrastructure 
OTTI—Operational Training and Test Infrastructure 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
M&S—Modeling and Simulation 
MDS—Mission Design Series 
PESHE—Programmatic Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Evaluation 
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force 
SCA—Security Control Assessor 
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information 
SME—Subject Matter Expert 
SPO—System Program Office 
20 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
STP—System Training Plan 
TPT—Training Planning Team 
TMF—Threat Matrix Framework 
TSRA—Training System Requirements Analysis 
TSSC—Training System Support Center 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
Office Symbols 
ACC/A6—Air Combat Command Communications Directorate 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects 
Operations 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AF/A3T—Training and Readiness Directorate 
AF/A3TI—Chief, Operational Training Infrastructure Division 
AF/IO—F-35 Integration Office 
AF/TEP—Air Force Test and Evaluation Programs and Policy 
AFAMS—Air Force Agency for Modeling and Simulation 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
SAF/IA—Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SAF/CMSO—Department of the Air Force Chief Modeling and Simulation Officer 
SAF/CN—Department of the Air Force Chief Information Officer 
SAF/CND—Department of the Air Force Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer 
Terms 
Accreditation—Official determination that the operational training system is acceptable for the 
specific training tasks or events to be accomplished in the device. 
Air Force career field managers—Individuals appointed by their respective Headquarters Air 
Force Deputy Chief of Staff or director to ensure development, implementation, and maintenance 
of career field education and training plans for their assigned Air Force specialties. Air Force career 
field managers communicate directly with MAJCOM functional manager, Air Reserve 
Component, and AETC training pipeline manager to disseminate Air Force and career field 
policies and program requirements. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
21 
Aircrew training device—A training device used to prepare aircrew members for the actual 
performance of aircrew duties. Aircrew training devices can include training devices such as: 
cockpit familiarization trainers, cockpit procedures trainers, operational flight trainers, part task 
trainers, fuselage trainer, boom-operator weapon system trainer, and weapon system trainers, just 
to name a few. 
Centralized asset management—AFMC’s Program Office process to develop and manage 
programs using the following four main pillars: Centralized sustainment funding, logistics 
requirements determination, performance-based logistics, and integrated wholesale supply and 
depot maintenance operations. 
Computer generated forces—A generic term used to refer to computer representations of forces 
in models and simulations that attempts to model human behavior sufficiently so that the forces 
will take some actions automatically (without requiring human-in-the-loop interaction). Types of 
CGF include automated forces - CGFs that require little or no human interaction; semi-automated 
forces - CGFs in which the individual platform simulation is operated by computer simulation of 
the platform crew and command hierarchy. (IEEE 1278.3-1996) 
Concurrency—The condition where the configuration and operation of the training system 
matches the configuration and functionality of the reference prime mission system(s), to the extent 
necessary to provide required training. For training devices, this condition includes the operational 
[flight] program, mission software, weapons, hardware, and third-party systems that sufficiently 
and accurately reflects the current configuration of the prime mission system(s) functionality. 
Connectivity—The capability of connecting to secure networks to conduct local and long-haul 
training with other players (shooters, command and control, Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
Reconnaissance capabilities, and so forth), based at other locations including network training 
centers (for example, distributed training centers). 
Contractor logistics support—A support concept where a contractor is used to provide logistics 
support for a system, subsystem, modification, or equipment. Contractor logistics support covers 
activities equivalent to depot maintenance and, as negotiated with the using command, necessary 
organizational and intermediate level maintenance, software support, and other operation and 
maintenance tasks. 
Contracting officer’s representative—An individual who is designated and authorized in writing 
by the Contracting Officer to perform specific technical or administrative functions on contracts 
or orders. This individual may perform the duties of a contractor logistics support Contracting 
Officer’s Representative or a TSSC Contracting Officer’s Representative. 
Courseware—All instructional material including technical data, textual materials, audio tapes, 
slides, movies, video tapes, video discs, and other audiovisual materials. 
Distributed mission operations—The networking of warfighter training that utilizes the 
integration of virtual and constructive entities, systems, and environments via secure wide-area 
network to acquire and sustain mission essential competencies required for operational readiness. 
Distributed mission operations expand a unit’s training capabilities and resources to facilitate inter-
team training among geographically separated and composite force teams to execute major weapon 
system training tables, ready aircrew program activities, mission rehearsals, tactics, techniques, 
and procedures training, and large force exercises. 
22 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Distributed Training Center—A center for operational management of distributed training 
activity and capabilities and a portal for connectivity with and/or management of training activity 
with other entities. 
Fidelity—The degree to which the synthetic environment (for example, visuals, databases, threats, 
CGFs, weapons performance, aero modeling, and so forth) correctly represents the real-world 
environment to the operator to accomplish mission training. Operational training models need to 
support a high-fidelity simulation capability. Access to accurate and representative models and 
simulation is crucial, and all entities should be available and simulated to the appropriate level of 
detail.  The quality of models directly determines the quality of simulation products. 
Formal training—Training in an officially designated course conducted or administered IAW 
appropriate course outline and training objectives. 
Full operational capability—The full attainment of the capability to effectively employ a weapon 
system, item of equipment, or system of approved specific characteristics, which is manned and 
operated by a trained, equipped, and supported military unit or force. Full operational capability is 
not necessarily a date; it defines the criteria necessary to declare full operational capability. 
High-end advanced tactics and training—The highest level of tactics development and training 
that can be accomplished by a platform in a controlled venue (live, synthetic, and/or blended) to 
meet its expected TMF level mission environment.  Normally, this is also the venue where  the 
highest level of instructor training or operational readiness validation is accomplished.  This is also 
where Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) development or validation occurs for specific 
platforms based upon their expected threat environments or new employment concepts. 
Human in the loop simulation—A model type that requires human interaction during runtime. It 
employs one or more human operators in direct control of the simulation/simulator or in some key 
support function. Human-centered M&S is distinguished from science and process-based 
simulations where human intervention and modeling does not occur. (DoD M&S Book of 
Knowledge) 
Human systems integration—The process of effective integration of manpower, personnel, 
training, human factors, safety and occupational health, personal survivability, and habitability 
considerations into the acquisition of prime mission systems to improve total system performance 
and reduce costs by focusing attention on the capabilities and limitations of humans. 
Initial operational capability—That first attainment of the capability to employ a weapon 
effectively, item of equipment, or system of approved specific characteristics with the appropriate 
number, type, and mix of trained and equipped personnel necessary to operate, maintain, and 
support the system. It is normally defined in the capability development document. Note: initial 
operational capability is event-driven and not tied to a specific future date. 
Instructional system development—A deliberate and orderly process for planning and 
developing instructional programs that make sure personnel are taught the knowledge, skills, and 
attitudes essential for successful job performance. It depends on a description and analysis of the 
tasks necessary for performing the job, objectives, and tests clearly stated before instruction 
begins, evaluation procedures to determine whether the objectives have been reached, and methods 
for revising the process based on empirical data. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
23 
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide data, information, materiel, 
and services to, and accept the same from, other systems, units, or forces, and to use the data, 
information, materiel, and services exchanged to enable them to operate effectively together. 
Information Technology (IT) interoperability includes both the technical exchange of information 
and the end-to-end operational effectiveness of that exchange of information as required for 
mission accomplishment. Interoperability is more than just information exchange. It includes 
systems, processes, procedures, organizations, and missions over the life cycle and must be 
balanced with cybersecurity. 
Lead command—The MAJCOM that is the primary operator of a system, subsystem, or item of 
equipment. This designation generally applies to those operational commands or organizations 
designated by Headquarters Air Force to conduct or participate in operations or operational testing 
(see DAFPD 10-9). The USAF assigns responsibility for overall management of each system, 
subsystem, or item of equipment to a lead command. The lead command contributes to the process 
of developing and maintaining a force structure with a balance of complementary capabilities, and 
it establishes a basis for rational allocation of scarce resources among competing requirements. 
The lead command is responsible for advocating, programming, and allocating funding for those 
systems assigned to it. 
Mission-task analysis—A process of reviewing mission requirements, developing collective task 
statements, and arranging the collective tasks in a hierarchical relationship. 
Master task list—Documentation of total tasks that may be performed on a weapon system. These 
lists may include the entire spectrum of tasks in each functional area (operations, maintenance, 
and support). The master task list provides a task baseline enabling further analysis and the 
formulation of formal training decisions. 
Milestone A—An investment decision to pursue specific product or design concepts, and to 
commit the resources required to mature technology and/or reduce any risks that must be mitigated 
prior to decisions committing the resources needed for development leading to production and 
fielding. 
Mission system training device—A device that provides the trainees with a simulated warfare 
environment that is specifically mission oriented to the type of prime mission system involved. 
The device can provide specific prime mission system operator modes or a mission mode that 
requires tactical decision-making. 
Objectives/Media analysis—A process designed to identify all training objectives. It also 
allocates and justifies instructional strategies, methods, and media for each training objective. The 
objectives/media analysis defines training objectives in terms of conditions, required behavior, and 
standards of acceptable performance. Defines a media analysis and selection process. Documents 
the method/media trade process. Selects the method/media to be used and, with rationale, allocates 
the training objectives. 
Operational training—Mission-oriented training in support of operational forces readiness. It is 
a crucial element of all the Air Force Service Core Functions.  It usually distinguishes itself from 
initial skills training due to its focus on employment of a weapon system and skills in an 
operational setting as opposed to learning the basic use of equipment or development of basic 
skills.  Spans all domains and large scale (Tier 1) through small scale (Tier 4) events across the 
breadth of multiple security levels and releasability restrictions. 
24 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Operational training infrastructure—A framework that includes training systems, live ranges, 
training devices, environment generators, threat emitters, aggressors, networks, training centers, 
and multi-domain command and control training systems. 
Operational training system—A systematically developed curriculum including, but not 
necessarily limited to, courseware, classroom aids, training devices, operational equipment, 
embedded training capability, and personnel to operate, maintain, or employ a system. The 
operational training system includes all necessary elements of logistic support. 
Orphan training system—Training devices/systems that are not supported by specific prime 
mission system programs or part of existing training maintenance contracts. 
Prime mission system (equipment)—Any weapon system, support system, workstation, or end- 
item that supports a specific military mission, therefore requiring operations, maintenance, or 
support personnel training. Also called a defense system or parent system. 
Program manager—The designated individual with responsibility for, and authority to 
accomplish, program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s 
operational needs. The program manager has life cycle responsibility for the prime mission system. 
Program manager duties include providing assessments of program status and risk to higher 
authorities and to the operator or operator's representative; actively managing within approved 
resources, program cost, performance, and schedule; and providing assessments of contractor 
performance. Program managers report to SAF/AQ through the appropriate program executive 
officer (even though they may be physically located within AFMC). 
Ready aircrew program—MAJCOM program that defines the minimum required mix of annual 
sorties, simulator missions, and training events aircrew must accomplish to sustain mission 
readiness. 
Simulation—A method for implementing computer generated entities over time. Also, a technique 
for testing, analysis, or training in which real-world systems are used, or where real-world and 
conceptual systems are prepared by a model. 
Simulator—A training device that permits development and practice of the necessary skills for 
accomplishing tasks to a prescribed standard of competency in a specific prime mission system 
and duty position. 
Simulator certification—The process of ensuring through validation of hardware and software 
baselines, that a training system and its components provide accurate and credible training. The 
process also ensures the device continues to perform to the delivered specifications, performance 
criteria, and configuration levels. It also sets-up an audit trail regarding specification and baseline 
data for compliance and subsequent contract solicitation or device modification. 
Simulator validation—The process for (1) comparing a training device’s operating parameters 
and performance to the current intelligence assessment of a prime mission system and threat and 
interaction between the prime mission system and threat; and (2) documenting the differences and 
impacts between the prime mission system’s performance and the threat environment. This process 
includes generation and deployment of an intelligence data baseline of the system, comparison of 
simulator characteristics and performance, support for the modification and upgrade of the 
simulator, a comparison of simulator and threat operating procedures, and correction of any 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
25 
significant deficiencies. Uncorrected deficiencies are identified and published in validation 
reports. The process continues throughout the life cycle of the simulator. 
Synthetic environment—The integrated set of data elements that define the environment within 
which a given simulation application operates.  The data elements include information about the 
initial and subsequent states of the terrain including cultural features, and atmospheric and 
oceanographic environments throughout an exercise.  The data elements include databases of 
externally observable information about instantiable entities, and are adequately correlated for the 
type of exercise to be performed.  More generally, it is the combination of simulators and 
constructive environments. 
Synthetic environment certification—The process of ensuring, through validation of software 
baselines, physics-based attributes, constructive entities, and threat representation, that a synthetic 
environment and its components provide accurate, credible, and operationally relevant interactions 
to support training objectives.  The process also ensures the environment continues to perform to 
the delivered specifications, performance criteria, and configuration levels.  It also sets up an audit 
trail regarding specification and baseline data for compliance and subsequent contract solicitation 
or environment modification. 
System training plan—An iterative planning document that defines the justification, design, 
development, funding, resources, support, modification, operation, and management of an 
operational training system. The STP is designed to provide for planning and implementation of 
training and to make sure all resources and supporting actions required for establishment and 
support are considered. For fielded systems, the STP may be a stand-alone document, or it may be 
referenced and summarized in the life cycle sustainment plan or other human systems integration 
documents. All references to the STP in this AFI incorporate the possibility that the intended 
documentation may be part of a life cycle sustainment plan or human systems integration 
documents. Training considerations prior to fielding will be addressed in coordination with the 
program manager. 
Training—Instruction and applied exercises for the acquisition and retention of knowledge, skills, 
and attitudes required to accomplish military tasks. 
Training device—A device that permits learning, development, and the practice of skills and 
procedures necessary for understanding and operating the integrated systems of a specific prime 
mission system (Simulator is a subset of Training Device).  For AETC, a training device that 
permits development and practice of the basic skills and tasks for completion of undergraduate 
aircrew training to a prescribed standard of competency. 
Training pipeline managers—Responsible for life cycle management (planning, directing, 
implementing, and overseeing) formal training courses. This process begins with basic military 
training and extends through advanced skills courses. Training pipeline managers administer and 
execute MAJCOM level training management to include prioritizing and advocating training 
resource requirements to the Air Staff. 
Training planning team—An action group composed of representatives from all pertinent 
functional areas, disciplines, and interests involved in the life cycle design, development, 
acquisition, support, modification, funding, and management of a specific prime mission 
operational training system. The TPT uses the STP to ensure training considerations are adequately 
addressed in the prime mission system acquisition and modification processes. 
26 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Training requirement—The knowledge, skills, and attitudes that are required for satisfying the 
job performance requirements and are not already in the incoming students' repertoire. 
Training requirements analysis—A process that allows for determination of training 
requirements and allocation of proficiency level to resolve a performance deficiency. 
Training system basis analysis—A process that analyzes the existing operational training 
systems, training deficiencies, assess new training technology for potential application, evaluates 
alternative training system concepts, system configurations, and recommend solutions. 
Training system manager—Expert who works with USAF and industry training system 
managers and SMEs to ensure training systems are adequately funded and properly provisioned to 
support USAF operations training. 
Training systems product group—An umbrella term to describe the USAF organizations to 
include AFRL and AFLCMC that support warfighter and multinational partner training through 
the use of modeling and simulation techniques. Collectively, the training systems product group 
provides the warfighter with a full range of operational training system life cycle support. Key 
capabilities include research and development; acquiring and/or sustaining training systems; 
conducting contract training support to include TSRAs, student instruction, courseware 
development and maintenance, training management systems, device operation and maintenance, 
and on-site or on-call service; assistance; concurrency modifications; technology insertion 
upgrades; multiple database sources; contractual vehicles for task orders; and disposition. 
Training system requirements analysis—A systematic approach to assess prime mission 
systems based on the instructional system development process that develops data items to 
document the training and preliminary system requirements to ensure personnel are taught in a 
cost-efficient way based on the knowledge, skills, and attitudes essential for successful mission 
performance. During this process, analysts extract and allocate training requirements identified 
from the user’s operational needs. The training system requirements analysis process is the written 
record from a compilation of the following four complementary elements: mission/task analysis, 
training requirements analysis, objectives/media analysis, and the training system basis analysis. 
It serves as a required input to the STP. AFLCMC, through the training system program office, 
acquisition program office, or AETC, and in coordination with the lead command, shall conduct 
the training system requirements analysis. Expanded information on the TSRA process is 
contained in Attachment 2 of this AFI. 
Training system support center—Normally a government-owned, contractor-operated 
consolidated function that includes the contractor personnel, government owned equipment, 
facilities, tools, and data necessary to provide configuration management functions, engineering 
development, and feasibility studies, life cycle hardware, software, and courseware support for an 
operational training system. Contractor logistics support contracted TSSCs maintain operational 
training system operational training baselines by merging configuration management baselined 
weapon system(s) functionality with mission and training profiles, etc., to provide the using unit 
with an effective trainer for initial and continuation training, ready aircrew program, and 
distributed training capabilities. Contractor logistics support TSSCs normally support aircrew and 
maintenance training systems. 
Using command—Any command or organization (above the Wing level) that possesses a prime 
mission system and uses the products of the operational training system. The using command is 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
27 
responsible for managing and conducting mission operations using the resources allocated by the 
lead command and higher headquarters. As such, the using command is responsible for defining 
the system requirements necessary to conduct and sustain operations. These requirements are 
submitted to the lead command for advocacy, programming, and funding allocation. If only one 
MAJCOM or agency possesses the prime mission system, that MAJCOM or agency is the 
designated lead command. 
Utilization rates—the rate of actual resource use versus planned resource use. 
Validation—(1) For the purposes of this instruction, determination of the degree to which the 
operational training system represents the real-world asset from the perspective of the specific 
training to be accomplished. The lead command is the validation authority and will designate a 
validation agent. (2) The process of determining the degree to which a model is an accurate 
representation of the real-world from the perspective of the intended uses of the model. 
Verification—(1) For the purposes of this instruction, determination if the operational training 
system accurately represents the contract design specification or Statement of Work or 
Performance Work Statement. The acquisition agent is the verification authority with support from 
the lead command. (2) The process of determining that a model implementation accurately 
represents the developer's conceptual description and specifications. 
 
28 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Attachment 2 
TRAINING SYSTEMS REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS 
A2.1.  Training system requirements analysis process.  The TPT will initiate a front-end TSRA 
after Acquisition Milestone A.  Guidance covering front-end TSRAs is provided in DoDI 5000.02, 
Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework, to inform STP development.  The TPT will 
initiate and define the follow-on TSRA scope relative to the information required.  (T-1) For new 
and emerging prime mission systems, the lead command will conduct a TSRA, in coordination 
with the training system program office, acquisition program office, using commands and/or 
AETC.  (T-1) For existing systems, the lead command, program manager, or TPT will conduct 
recurring TSRAs when major modifications occur, including but not limited to aircraft software 
releases, new mission capabilities (weapons, sensors, communications), or changes to mission 
essential and training task lists. (T-1) 
A2.2.  Training system requirements analysis components.  A TSRA is comprised of four 
sequential components to ensure training considerations are addressed in the prime mission system 
acquisition and modification processes. The TPT may direct separate front-end TSRAs to address 
specific mission areas, such as separate operations and maintenance TSRAs. The analytic 
components remain the same. The TPT may focus follow-on TSRAs to fewer components when 
appropriate for the defined scope. 
A2.2.1.  Mission-task analysis. The mission-task analysis identifies and analyzes all tasks 
required for the operation, maintenance, and/or support of the prime mission system. The 
mission-task analysis will result in a Master Task List detailing tasks for each mission. The 
master task list should be derived from analysis of mission tasks, associated system tasks, 
legacy mission systems, similar mission systems, or operational training system task lists. The 
TPT may provide guidance on master task list content. Based on the mission area(s) assessed, 
the mission-task analysis may: 
A2.2.1.1.  Break each mission into tasks, situational context, and coordination 
requirements. Each mission should be described in terms of mission objectives, scenarios, 
segments, and mission profiles. 
A2.2.1.2.  Provide a full range of threat and environmental conditions. 
A2.2.2.  Training requirements analysis. The training requirements analysis will develop the 
master task list into the training task list for the prime mission system. (T-1) The analysis will 
identify tasks requiring formal training and the criteria for successful performance in a mission 
context.  (T-1) The training requirements analysis will: 
A2.2.2.1.  Identify target populations and tasks for which current students/trainees lack the 
knowledge, skills, and attitudes required for their performance. (T-1) Knowledge, skills, 
and attitudes are classified as perceptual, motor, cognitive, information processing abilities. 
A2.2.2.2.  Define formal training entry level and exit level knowledge, skills, and attitudes 
for each unique target student population. (T-1) Baseline target populations can include 
upgrade, qualification, or continuation training. 
A2.2.3.  Objectives/media analysis. The objectives/media analysis develops training 
objectives from the training requirements analysis-developed training task list and selects 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
29 
delivery media. The analysis will result in clearly stated and organized training objectives 
mapped to an effective and feasible media solution. The objectives/media analysis will: 
A2.2.3.1.  Develop enabling objectives for each task defined in terms of conditions, 
required behavior, and lead command defined standards of acceptable performance. (T-1) 
These objectives should be organized and grouped logically under terminal objectives to 
use later for syllabus and course map development. 
A2.2.3.2.  Define and document a media analysis and selection process. (T-1) 
A2.2.4.  Training system basis analysis. The training systems basis analysis develops the 
training system concept and defines the training system configuration. (T-1) The analysis will 
result in a functional baseline for the design, development, and operation of an integrated 
training system.  The training systems basis analysis may: 
A2.2.4.1.  Analyze legacy or similar training systems and identify deficiencies. 
A2.2.4.2.  Assess new training technology for potential application in training system 
concepts. 
A2.2.4.3.  Evaluate alternative training system concepts and system configurations. 
A2.2.4.4.  Recommend numbers, functions, and types of training media, courseware 
requirements, and training management system functions. 
A2.2.4.5.  Provide rationale and justification concerning how a proposed system will 
remedy deficiencies. 
 
30 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Attachment 3 
SYSTEM TRAINING PLAN 
A3.1.  The Lead Command will: 
A3.1.1.  Establish operational training system definition through acquisition and modification 
documentation that will support the review and decision process. (T-2) 
A3.1.2.  Identify training needs (including networking capabilities if applicable), concepts, 
strategies, constraints, risks, data, alternatives, resources, responsibilities, and other areas, 
through an iterative process. (T-1) 
A3.1.3.  Include an instructional system development analysis of the ground-based media. 
Analyze how it complements hands-on training or supplements training when resource 
availability, security, cost, and environmental, safety, and occupational health (ESOH) 
constraints limit use of the prime mission system equipment as a training media. (T-1) 
A3.1.4.  Identify tasks for which personnel cannot currently be adequately trained (training 
gaps). These tasks will be documented in the STP as unmet requirements and identified as 
potential limiting factors in the ability to accomplish the prime mission system mission. (T-1) 
A3.1.5.  Document the results of early, front-end, and follow-on TSRAs. (T-1) 
A3.1.6.  Provide the basic concepts and strategy to attain and maintain operational training 
system concurrency and networking capability to support desired training capability at the 
appropriate time. (T-1) 
A3.1.7.  Establish milestones and schedules to ensure timely development, testing, and fielding 
of training capability and training support. (T-1) 
A3.1.8.  Identify how subsystems and components should be integrated into the total 
operational training system. Include distributed training capabilities (for example, DMO) 
implementation, sustainment, and utilization, if applicable. (T-1) 
A3.1.9.  Provide information and identify resources for management decisions within the 
planning, programming, budgeting, and execution system process which support operational 
training system acquisition, modification, and sustainment processes. (T-1) 
A3.1.10.  Identify alternate training strategies, to include methodology and media, if funding, 
concurrency, or other unknowns negatively impact required operational training system 
capabilities. (T-1) 
A3.1.11.  Recommend areas for new technology applications to improve future operational 
training system effectiveness and efficiency. (T-1) 
A3.2.  System Training Plan format.  The TPT may choose to utilize one of two formats for the 
STP depending upon the life cycle phase of the prime mission systems: emerging mission systems 
and existing mission systems. 
A3.2.1.  STP format for emerging prime mission systems. The exact composition of the STP 
is at the discretion of the TPT. The STP will be referenced and summarized in the life cycle 
sustainment plan or other human systems integration documents. The STP is a top-level 
document that provides input to the requirements generation, acquisition program planning, 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
31 
and budget development processes. The details needed to support this analysis may be 
maintained in other documents and referenced in the STP. 
A3.2.2.  Suggested STP sections. Include only those sections necessary to guide the 
development, fielding, and management of the operational training system: 
A3.2.2.1.  Executive summary. Provide an overview of the STP. Highlight sufficient and 
significant elements to support the program, shortfalls, and future objectives. Briefly 
describe the overall mission of the prime mission system, the operational training system, 
and requirements. Show the relationship of the resource to meeting the overall mission, 
shortfalls, and alternatives. 
A3.2.2.2.  Mission and prime mission system description. Describe the mission and prime 
mission system based on the operational requirement, threat environment, and the designed 
operational capability, when determined. Include a thorough analysis of the mission 
performed by the prime mission system; a classified attachment may be required. Include 
title, nomenclature, and program elements for budget, security classification, prime 
mission system priority rating, and principal agencies. Reference other plans and 
documents that support the prime mission system mission or operational training system 
acquisition and modification process. Include a brief summary of the baseline system to be 
replaced, modified, or augmented; shortcomings, displacement, or disposition, if being 
replaced. 
A3.2.2.3.  Training planning team (TPT) membership. The STP should document TPT 
membership, which must comprise the lead command, using commands, weapon system 
program office, and training systems product group representatives. 
A3.2.2.4.  Operational training system description. Describe the total operational training 
system by functional area, including instructional strategy, duration, content, media, 
training devices and utilization rates, and facilities. Provide strategy and alternative 
methodologies throughout the training continuum. Address the use of distributed training 
capabilities (for example, DMO) or describe how this requirement will be waived in 
coordination with using commands and the training systems product group. Identify 
proposed approach to acquire training equipment and facilities. Estimate training 
qualification time required to achieve full proficiency. Include description of database, 
systems integration, networking standards, controlled interfaces, compatibility, 
transportability, and deployment requirements. Address ability to efficiently and cost 
effectively modify operational training system software concurrently with the prime 
mission system. Identify requirement for computer-based training and interactive 
courseware.  Provide a course summary document. 
A3.2.2.5.  Diagram a timeline which includes the training progression of each operational 
and maintenance functional area from entry into and through exit from the prime mission 
system. Identify on the continuum all qualification levels, evaluation checkpoints, and 
reentry qualification points. State the policy upon which decisions will be based for critical 
points, such as course sequence and media allocation on prime mission system equipment 
training. Indicate basic training principles to be considered, such as a building-block 
approach. 
A3.2.2.6.  Describe operational training systems. 
32 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
A3.2.2.7.  List and describe operational training system component’s role, use, and 
capabilities: 
A3.2.2.7.1.  Actual prime mission system mission and non-prime mission system 
equipment. 
A3.2.2.7.2.  Courseware and associated equipment. 
A3.2.2.7.3.  Training aids and devices. 
A3.2.2.7.4.  Embedded training capability in the weapon system. 
A3.2.2.8.  Describe AFRC and ANG participation. 
A3.2.2.9.  Identify all composite, joint, interagency, or multinational training applications. 
A3.2.2.10.  Address potential or unresolved training issues. 
A3.2.2.10.1.  Operational training system requirements. Summarize the key capability 
needs and operational and sustainment requirements for the operational training system 
as expressed in appropriate operational capability documents, concepts of operations, 
and other basic requirements documents. Describe how manpower, personnel, training, 
human factors engineering, safety, and occupational health considerations are applied 
to the design and development of the prime mission system operational training 
systems to reduce costs and enhance capabilities. Establish initial objectives that 
support readiness, force structure, affordability, and operational objectives. 
A3.2.2.10.2.  Training system requirements analysis (TSRA). The TPT will use the 
results of the TSRA to identify the prime mission system training requirements. The 
TPT will validate the TSRA products for use in the design of the operational training 
system. The mission-task analysis report and training requirements analysis report will 
be used by the TPT to develop the training task list with performance criteria for 
inclusion in the operational training system requirement documents. The 
objectives/media analysis report and training system basis analysis report may be used 
to identify other operational training system requirements, such as the numbers and 
types of training devices, courseware, potential training alternatives, technology 
assessment, observations, and recommendations to be incorporated into the training 
requirement documents. 
A3.2.2.11.  Implementation. Describe data sources, implementation procedures, special 
authorization or approvals, and assign responsibilities. Identify those training areas not 
supported by a complete task analysis process. Describe the use of distributed training 
capabilities (for example, DMO) or how this requirement will be waived in coordination 
with using commands or training systems product group. 
A3.2.2.12.  Operational training system concurrency strategy. Identify and group critical 
training tasks consistent with mission training development and implementation that are 
impacted by concurrency. When incremental (phased) delivery of training capability is 
advantageous or necessary, training capabilities should support the following priorities as 
agreed to by the TPT: 
A3.2.2.12.1.  Safety training requirements and tasks. 
A3.2.2.12.2.  Warfighting training requirements and tasks. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
33 
A3.2.2.12.3.  Full mission training and rehearsal requirements and tasks. 
A3.2.2.13.  Organizational interfaces. Identify government organizations necessary to 
ensure timely approvals and transfer of data, equipment, and property, which should be 
concurrent with the first contract award and renewed throughout the life cycle of the prime 
mission system operational training system. Include established agreements such as 
service-level agreements, statements of work, and memorandums of understanding. Briefly 
list responsibilities for each command or organization. 
A3.2.2.14.  Operational training system management and support concept. Concurrency 
must be given primary consideration in contracting. Identify the concept and strategy for 
achieving life cycle management and support of the operational training system, to include 
cybersecurity. Describe requirements and options for logistics support. Contractor logistics 
support contracts that include hardware and/or software modifications should be developed 
and used. Consider: 
A3.2.2.14.1.  Contractor logistic support management. 
A3.2.2.14.2.  Technical data. 
A3.2.2.14.3.  Spares. 
A3.2.2.14.4.  Consumables. 
A3.2.2.14.5.  Organizational-, intermediate-, and depot-level maintenance. 
A3.2.2.14.6.  Special or system operational equipment. 
A3.2.2.14.7.  Common or special tools and equipment. 
A3.2.2.14.8.  Facilities. 
A3.2.2.15.  Manpower support concept, military personnel utilization concept, and 
personnel training requirements. Consider student demographics, entry requirements, and 
student throughput estimates; estimate portion of military, civilian, or contract personnel, 
to include Cybersecurity requirements. Describe Air Force Specialty Code employed. 
Identify these and any other unique requirements for this system in each of the following 
functional areas: 
A3.2.2.15.1.  Combined test force. 
A3.2.2.15.2.  Initial cadre. 
A3.2.2.15.3.  Operations. 
A3.2.2.15.4.  Maintenance. 
A3.2.2.15.5.  Depot. 
A3.2.2.15.6.  Security forces. 
A3.2.2.15.7.  Munitions and explosive ordnance. 
A3.2.2.15.8.  Contract support, contractor logistics support, or contract training. 
A3.2.2.16.  Training Constraints and Risks. Include all potential limitations that will or 
may affect timely implementation of training objectives to meet initial operational 
capability and maintain full operational capability. Describe all peacetime training 
34 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
constraints. Consider manpower or personnel and resource availability, security, cost, and 
ESOH considerations, which may influence training media and methodology design, 
development, and selection. Program managers document the status of operational training 
system (or any other type of system) ESOH risk management in the Programmatic 
Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Evaluation (PESHE). The lead command 
and using command should refer to the PESHE for the identification and status of ESOH 
risks. For operational training system programs, the ESOH risk acceptance authorities 
should be aligned with DoDI 5000.02. Include peacetime restrictions on the use of the 
prime mission system. Identify risks and assign risk levels that may affect deployment 
schedules or other milestones. Identify the expected impact of late to need or unusable 
training devices in terms of workarounds, dollar costs for alternative training, increased 
use of the prime mission system, or impact of failure to perform on combat capability. 
Consider initiatives such as advanced prime mission system design change data deliveries 
and long-lead contractor provided equipment or government-furnished equipment, 
information, or property. The risk government-furnished property adds to a concurrent 
delivery schedule must be discussed and tradeoffs identified. 
A3.2.2.17.  Prime mission system and operational training system milestones. Identify the 
prime mission system and operational training system schedules and priority ratings 
necessary for concurrency required to deliver the operational training system. Show "need 
dates" in terms of milestones. Include key engineering change proposals, management 
responsibility, and operational milestones. Consider all schedules pertinent to satisfying 
training objectives through definitive milestones. These could include: 
A3.2.2.17.1.  Weapon system major milestones to include initial operational capability 
through full operational capability. 
A3.2.2.17.2.  Task requirements and analyses completion dates. 
A3.2.2.17.3.  Training equipment requirements and delivery. 
A3.2.2.17.4.  Facility beneficial occupancy dates. 
A3.2.2.17.5.  Prime mission system and operational training system deployment dates. 
A3.2.2.17.6.  TSSC activation. 
A3.2.2.17.7.  Factory or contractor training dates. 
A3.2.2.17.8.  Instructional course start dates. 
A3.2.2.17.9.  Logistics support requirements dates. 
A3.2.2.17.10.  Ready for Training and Required Assets Available dates. 
A3.2.2.17.11.  Technical data availability. 
A3.2.2.17.12.  Courseware development completion dates. 
A3.2.2.17.13.  Training management system completion dates. 
A3.2.2.17.14.  Operational training system evaluation plan and review dates. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
35 
A3.2.2.17.15.  Distributed training capability (for example, DMO) implementation and 
sustainment plan, training objectives, initial operational capability, and full operational 
capability dates. 
A3.2.2.18.  Resource Summary. Identify total resource requirements to develop and 
operate the operational training system throughout the prime mission system life cycle. 
Include recommended tradeoffs to support training and impact of not funding or procuring 
desired training capability. 
A3.2.2.18.1.  Indicate funding by allocation and fiscal year. 
A3.2.2.18.2.  Include training or test equipment, courseware, training aids, technical 
manuals, and documentation by types, numbers, and life cycle support. 
A3.2.2.18.3.  Manpower, to include officer, enlisted, and civilian. 
A3.2.2.18.4.  Personnel, to include instructor cadre and support personnel. 
A3.2.2.18.5.  Military construction or facility modification. Describe project and 
costing by fiscal year. Establish physical, power, security, and other relevant 
requirements. 
A3.2.2.18.6.  Contractor support. Time, effort, and cost. Initial training support. 
A3.2.2.18.7.  Travel and per diem requirements and costs. 
A3.2.2.18.8.  Other: Airspace, ranges, flying hours, munitions, etc. 
A3.2.2.19.  Training evaluation and validation. Develop and document evaluation and 
validation criteria, methodology, and responsibilities. Provide cost-benefit analysis of 
proposed alternatives. Include plan for evaluation of training effectiveness. 
A3.2.2.20.  Research and development efforts. Describe current and future research and 
development studies and cost-benefit analysis that may support upgrades to the systems or 
alternative methodologies to close any training gaps or accomplish the training with fewer 
resources. 
A3.2.2.21.  Lessons learned. Identify problem areas common with other programs and 
potential solutions. Document assumptions made, fixes, workarounds, or changes to 
requirements based on lessons learned. Include impact on system costs, effectiveness, and 
combat capability. 
A3.2.2.22.  Distribution. Distribute to members of the TPT and other designated agencies. 
A3.2.3.  STP format for existing prime mission systems. After fielding of the operational 
training system, the STP for an emerging weapon system becomes a historical document 
providing direction, perspective, and guidance for managers of the operational training system. 
The STP for an existing weapon system is a road map of the operational training system. The 
exact composition of the STP is at the discretion of the TPT. It may include the following: 
A3.2.3.1.  An assessment of future training needs caused by changes in the prime mission 
system and/or its mission tasking. 
A3.2.3.2.  A timeline to show the plan for sustaining, modifying, disposing, and replacing 
the operational training system components. 
36 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
A3.2.3.3.  Any analysis, assessment, or background documentation that provides 
justification for acquisition, modification, and funding support for operational training 
system components. Include distributed training capabilities (for example, DMO) 
implementation and sustainment, if previously included. 
A3.2.3.4.  An assessment of operational training system deficiencies and their impact on 
the operational training system costs, effectiveness, and combat capability. Document 
recommended fixes, work-a-rounds, or changes to requirements. 
A3.2.3.5.  An assessment of future research and development efforts or technological 
advances that could improve training effectiveness and/or efficiency, including cost- 
benefit analysis data. Include distributed training capability, timelines, and funding 
considerations. 
A3.2.3.6.  A current version of the PESHE. 
 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
37 
Attachment 4 
TRAINING SYSTEM METRICS 
A4.1.  Training System Metrics Tracking.  Training system metrics are used to track training 
system simulator utilization and to communicate the status and health of training systems through 
the MAJCOMs to AF/A3TI. The intent is to gain and maintain visibility on issues affecting 
training systems and measure and improve on how simulator training is conducted. MAJCOMs 
will track, as a minimum, the metrics data shown in Figure A4.1. (T-1)  Utilization will be tracked 
for simulators that are used to meet AFI11-2MDS Vol 1 currency and Ready Aircrew Program 
requirements and for simulators that use contracted hours to provide contractor instructor-based 
training. (T-1)  Simulators that have contractor logistics support but do not contract for set 
availability hours will report “Not Applicable” for contracted hours. (T-1) IAW paragraph 
2.12.2.10, simulator utilization metrics will be reported to AF/A3TI semi-annually.  Report by 30 
April for the prior semi-annual period October through March and by 31 October for the prior 
semi-annual period April through September.  MAJCOMs will upload their data to the platform-
specific worksheets located in their respective folders in Synthetic Training and Test folder on the 
OTTI Capability Development Team sharepoint site:  https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/HAF-
A5/center2/otti_cft/SitePages/OTTI.aspx. (T-1)   Forward any questions to the AF/A3TI 
Workflow email address (AF.A3TI.Workflow@us.af.mil). 
Figure A4.1.  Training System Simulator Metrics. 
 
A4.2.  See Figure A4.1 column headers explained below: 
A4.2.1.  {A} Prime Mission System—See attachment 1 Terms (i.e., F-15C, C-130J, JTAC, 
AOC). 
A4.2.2.  {B} Type of Training Device—Nomenclature for the training system device (i.e., 
WST, OFT, FMT, FMS, PPT, CPT, MCTS). 
A4.2.3.  {C} Available Hours Contracted for Use—Hours the contractor is required to have 
the training device available to be scheduled for Official Purpose use. 
A4.2.4.  {D} Official Purpose Hours—Contracted hours used for Official Purposes (See 
paragraph A4.3.). 
A4.2.5.  {E} Hours Executed—Official Purposes Hours actually used. 
38 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
A4.2.6.  {F} Official Purpose Hours Not Used—Hours the training device was not being used 
for Official Purposes.  Provide rationale breakout in Figure A4.2 for utilization rates less than 
80%. 
A4.3.  Examples of Official Purposes: 
A4.3.1.  Aircrew Training (Scheduled or Unscheduled). 
A4.3.2.  Simulator modification/upgrade/maintenance. 
A4.3.3.  Simulator facility/bay maintenance. 
A4.3.4.  Contractor use (pre-mission simulator set-up, pre-briefs, post-briefs, syllabus prep, 
instructor training, etc.). 
A4.3.5.  Very Important Person Tours. 
A4.3.6.  Maintenance Training. 
Figure A4.2.  Training System Simulator Non-Use Breakout. 
 
 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
39 
Attachment 5 
TRAINING SYSTEM SIMULATOR AND SYNTHETIC ENVIRONMENT 
CERTIFICATION AND SIMULATOR VALIDATION 
A5.1.  General.  Training system simulator/synthetic environment certification ensures that 
training systems and their components support accurate and credible networked (for example, 
DMO) and non-networked training for allocated tasks, missions, and events through training 
system hardware and software performance. 
A5.1.1.  Simulator validation verifies and validates the networked and/or non-networked 
simulated weapon system and self-generated mission environment performance.  JSE-
compliant “Aircraft In A Box” simulators will be used to validate the simulator using JSE as 
the synthetic environment.  Simulator and environment validation will be documented 
separately. (T-1) 
A5.1.2.  Operational training system training device simulator/synthetic environment 
certification and simulator validation examine fidelity, concurrency, connectivity, and 
usability characteristics to support operational training system accreditation and identify 
capabilities and limitations. 
A5.1.3.  Operational assessments supporting operational training system acquisition, 
modification and modernization may use simulator/synthetic environment certification and 
simulator validation methodologies managed by the acquisition agent and supported by the 
lead command. 
A5.1.4.  Simulator/synthetic environment certifications and simulator validations will recur 
throughout the life cycle of the system/environment, and each assessment will focus on training 
fidelity and quality of a lead command-approved, TSSC-developed, hardware and software 
configuration for that device. (T-1) 
A5.1.5.  The reports generated by the simulator/synthetic environment certification and 
simulator validation support the Accreditation Authority’s decision to accredit the associated 
operational training system for its intended use. 
A5.2.  Simulator certification program. 
A5.2.1.  Evaluate the simulator in an operational training environment and assess the 
following: 
A5.2.1.1.  Concurrency, connectivity, and fidelity. 
A5.2.1.2.  Major systems (for example, visual, motion, threat systems, CGFs, 
aerodynamic, weapons, sensors, electronic warfare, and control input). 
A5.2.1.3.  Instructor functions and interfaces. 
A5.2.1.4.  Brief/debrief and performance measurement. 
A5.2.1.5.  Integration and interoperability. 
A5.2.2.  Simulator certification accreditation. The simulator certification agent will provide 
certification results and the accreditation recommendation to the lead command, or designated 
accreditation proponent, for review. 
40 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
A5.3.  Synthetic environment certification program (not required for self-generated mission 
environments integral to the simulator). 
A5.3.1.  Evaluate the synthetic environment in an operational training environment and assess 
the following: 
A5.3.1.1.  Physics and threat representation. 
A5.3.1.2.  Concurrency, connectivity, and fidelity. 
A5.3.1.3.  Major systems (for example, image generation, threat systems, constructive 
entities, observable states, red/blue weapons, sensors, electromagnetic environment, and 
multi-spectral environmental effects). 
A5.3.1.4.  Instructor functions and interfaces. 
A5.3.1.5.  Data capture for brief/debrief and performance measurement. 
A5.3.1.6.  Integration and interoperability. 
A5.3.2.  Synthetic environment certification accreditation. The synthetic environment 
certification agent will provide certification results and the accreditation recommendation to 
the lead command, or designated accreditation proponent, for review. 
A5.3.3.  Synthetic environment certification should be accomplished for both networked and 
non-networked activities. 
A5.4.  Simulator validation program. 
A5.4.1.  Simulator validation is the process for (1) comparing a training device’s operating 
parameters and performance to the current intelligence assessment of a prime mission system, 
threat, and interaction between the prime mission system and threat; and (2) documenting the 
differences and impacts. This process includes generation and deployment of an intelligence 
data baseline of the system, comparison of simulator characteristics and performance, support 
for the modification and upgrade of the simulator, a comparison of simulator and threat 
operating procedures, and correction of any significant deficiencies. Uncorrected deficiencies 
are identified and published in validation reports. The process continues throughout the life 
cycle of the simulator. 
A5.4.2.  Operational training system simulator validation performed on a common CGF or 
HITL may not be used as the only source in formulating the accreditation decision for all 
operational training systems that use that CGF or HITL because the interactions between the 
simulated weapon systems and the simulated threats may not be consistent or equivalent. 
Regression testing must be accomplished to verify the consistency of the CGFs or HITLs 
interactions with the simulated weapon systems and to confirm the operational training system 
uses CGF or HITL inputs correctly.  JSE-compliant “Aircraft In A Box” simulators will be 
used to certify the simulators using JSE as the synthetic environment. 
A5.4.3.  Simulated physical systems accurately representing entities in all ways are needed to 
stimulate all platform sensors and provide needed characteristics for weapons employment and 
primary training activities. The emphasis will be on assuring modeling to appropriate fidelity 
for the operational training system. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
41 
A5.4.4.  New threats or changed threats in the CGF or HITL entity tables may require a 
simulator validation. 
A5.4.5.  Operational training system simulator validation acquisition of systems and 
modifications programs will be conducted IAW AFI 16-1001 and MAJCOM guidance. The 
simulator validation will include: 
A5.4.5.1.  Physical models. Validate physical performance and environmental interaction 
models in the CGF with authoritative sources: (for example, intelligence community 
estimates, test results, instrumented range data, etc.). 
A5.4.5.2.  Behavioral models. Base individual and organizational behavior models on 
accepted cognitive modeling methodologies. They will be executed at fidelity levels 
consistent with the warfighter tactical interactions. 
A5.4.5.3.  A summary of operational training system differences from threat and live 
weapon systems. 
A5.4.5.4.  Simulator validation requirements in the STP, life cycle sustainment plan, or 
human systems integration. 
A5.4.6.  Operational training system simulator validation accreditation. The operational 
training system simulator validation and accreditation results are forwarded to appropriate 
MAJCOM and unit leadership. 
 
42 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
Attachment 6 
THREAT MATRIX FRAMEWORK (TMF) 
A6.1.  Overview.  TMF is intended to be used in planning and execution for effective training 
event mission accomplishment. It provides a standardized assessment framework for air, space, 
and cyberspace domains and is designed for tactical applications for unit training. TMF is not 
designed to measure the capabilities of an entire country/region, but only smaller vignettes and is 
not intended to replace in-depth analysis that requires an analyst in the loop. To apply this standard 
framework to a scenario, one must bound the scenario by geography, time, and political situation. 
There are inherent limitations underlying the TMF. When applied to an enemy in a scenario, the 
TMF is an estimate of that enemy. This approximation is not intended to replace the in-depth 
analysis behind a TMF assessment but act as an augmentation to enable better communication 
across differing MDS or communities. For example, an environment labeled as contested could 
actually be permissive for a 5th generation aircraft yet simultaneously be highly contested for a C-
17. Utilizing the TMF and numerically categorizing the adversary threat environment overcame 
the ambiguity associated with terms such as contested and permissive. A level-2 fighter is a level-
2 fighter threat to every MDS. 
A6.2.  TMF contains criteria in each of the following nine categories: 
A6.2.1.  Air Surveillance. 
A6.2.2.  Battle Management. 
A6.2.3.  Fighters. 
A6.2.4.  Intercept Control. 
A6.2.5.  Surface Based Air Defense. 
A6.2.6.  Electronic Attack. 
A6.2.7.  Cyber. 
A6.2.8.  Space. 
A6.2.9.  Integration. 
A6.3.  These categories list the criteria and what is required (“Yes/No”) for each threat 
level.  To aid in discriminating between the various Threat Levels these criteria make the following 
distinctions: 
A6.3.1.  "No" simply means it is not "Required" to Train/replicate a certain Threat Level, it 
may still be highly "desired" at a Lower Threat Level. 
A6.3.2.  Threat replication type and density is dependent on the TMF Level; while every 
attempt was made to create specific details for each TMF Level, functional area manager 
analysis is needed to discern a Level 3 vs 4 "advanced threat". 
A6.3.3.  The assessment is based on operational training requirements for CMR 
aircrew/operators not Undergraduate or Initial Qualification criteria. 
AFI10-217  22 DECEMBER 2023 
43 
A6.4.  TMF Level Definitions. 
A6.4.1.  TMF 0-2—Defined as the ability to replicate and train against varying degrees of 
lower threat environments. 
A6.4.2.  TMF 3—Defined as the ability to replicate and train against an advanced adversary 
with legacy capabilities. 
A6.4.3.  TMF 4—Defined as the ability to replicate and train against a peer/near-peer 
adversary. 
A6.4.4.  TMF 5—Defined as the ability to replicate and train against emerging/future 
capabilities. 
 
