Administrative Change to AFI 10-1301, Air Force Doctrine Development 
OPR:  LeMay Center/AFDD 
Delete parenthetical reference in paragraph 3.2.3.: (AFTTP 3-2 series publications). 
 
8 September 2023 
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1301 
26 APRIL 2023 
Operations 
AIR FORCE  
DOCTRINE DEVELOPMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: LeMay Center/AFDD 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen James C. Slife)
Supersedes: 
AFI10-1301, 16 May 2019 
Pages: 13 
 
 
This publication implements Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 10-13, 
Doctrine and Lessons Learned. It establishes responsibilities and procedures for developing and 
coordinating doctrine for the Air Force. It identifies the roles and responsibilities of the 
Commander, Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (LeMay 
Center/CC) as principal agent for basic and operational doctrine to the Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force (CSAF), and those who support the Air Force doctrine process. It addresses doctrine focused 
at the basic and operational levels, as well as responsibilities and processes for developing tactics, 
techniques, and procedures. This instruction applies to all Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, 
Air Force Reserve, and Department of the Air Force civilian personnel responsible for doctrine 
development. This publication does not apply to the United States Space Force. Ensure all records 
generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 
(AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed of 
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force 
Records Information Management System. Refer recommended changes and questions about this 
publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the Department of the Air Force 
(DAF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the 
field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This Air Force instruction (AFI) may 
be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be 
routed to the OPR for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive 
requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following 
the compliance statement. See DAF Instruction (DAFI) 90-160, Publications and Forms 
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests 
2 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or 
alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. The use of the name or mark 
of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does 
not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Compliance with attachments is mandatory. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
Major changes include: (1) Incorporating discussion on doctrine’s relation to policy, strategy, and 
concepts in para 1.3.1 and para 1.3.2; (2) Reflecting the restructuring of the former AF/A3/A5 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements, mentioned in para 1.4.3, into 
separate deputy chiefs of staff; (3) Adding guidance on Air Force terminology in para 2.4; (4) 
Updating the developmental organization for support tactics, techniques, and procedures in para 
3.2.2; (5) Updating the signature block; and (6) Updating all references. 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
3 
Chapter 1 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
1.1.  Mission.  The LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (LeMay Center) 
develops basic and operational level doctrine for the Air Force and acts as the Air Force’s lead 
organization on doctrinal issues and positions. Key tasks include: Developing and publishing basic 
and operational level doctrine for the Air Force; assisting Air Force major commands and other 
offices in their development of tactical doctrine (Air Force tactics, techniques, and procedures 
[TTP]) derived from Air Force doctrinal publications; representing the Air Force in the 
development of joint and multinational doctrine; assisting in integrating the proper representation 
of doctrine in exercise scenarios, wargames, experiments, models, and simulations; and assisting 
Air University in developing, executing, and monitoring service-wide doctrine education policies 
and material. 
1.2.  Doctrine Development Authority.  Doctrine is developed under the authority of the CSAF. 
Per DAFPD 10-13, the LeMay Center/CC serves as the CSAF’s principal agent for basic and 
operational doctrine. Therefore, the LeMay Center/CC is directly responsible to the CSAF on 
matters of doctrine. For any matters dealing with basic and operational level doctrine, Air Force 
organizations coordinate directly with the LeMay Center. On all other LeMay Center issues not 
related to doctrine or Air Force lessons learned, the LeMay Center/CC reports to the Commander, 
Air University. 
1.3.  Objective of Doctrine.  Air Force doctrine forms the basis for how the Air Force contributes 
to achieving joint force objectives across the competition continuum. Historically proven best 
practices are the foundation of doctrine. It is imperative that Airmen understand it. Air Force 
doctrine also contributes to the development of joint and multinational doctrine and guides the 
development of Air Force TTPs and multi-service TTPs. Air Force basic and operational doctrine 
should not include detail more appropriate to instructions or TTPs. 
1.3.1.  Relationship of Air Force doctrine to policy and strategy.  Policy is directive guidance 
stating what is to be accomplished, setting overall priorities and objectives as determined by 
senior national and military leadership. Strategy describes how the instruments of national 
power may be employed to achieve theater, national, and multinational objectives. Policy 
shapes strategy and may affect the application of doctrine. The success or failure of strategy 
may affect both policy and doctrine. Use of the historically proven best practices of doctrine 
should inform policy and strategy. 
1.3.2.  Relationship of Air Force doctrine to concepts. Concepts are unproven ideas that require 
rigorous testing before adoption; they are not authoritative nor do they rise to the level of 
official advice. Concepts should propose a clear alternative to existing doctrine. As concepts 
gain institutional acceptance and needed capabilities are developed, validated elements of the 
concepts may be incorporated into doctrine. This information is provided to ensure consistency 
with joint policy as outlined in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction (CJCSI) 
5120.02, Joint Doctrine Development System. 
 
 
4 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
1.4.  Roles and Responsibilities.  The LeMay Center leads the development, education, and 
wargaming application of doctrine, however all Air Force organizations share this responsibility. 
Air Force organizations should ensure the integration of airpower is appropriately addressed in 
doctrine. Air Force major commands, reserve components, and two-letter headquarters Air Force 
organizations should bring doctrinally relevant issues to the attention of the LeMay Center. 
1.4.1.  CSAF. The CSAF is the senior authority for the Air Force doctrine program and 
provides overall direction. Additionally, the CSAF: 
1.4.1.1.  Is the final approval authority for basic and operational level Air Force doctrine. 
The CSAF may delegate approval authority to the LeMay Center/CC for select doctrine 
products. 
1.4.1.2.  Chairs the annual Doctrine Summit, a forum to review the status of Air Force 
doctrine and provide guidance on current and emerging doctrinal issues and concepts. 
1.4.2.  AF/A1, Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services: 
1.4.2.1.  Ensures, through the Commissioning Training and Education Committee, that 
doctrine education is represented in curricula of the Air Force commissioning sources. (T-
1) 
1.4.2.2.  Ensures basic military training requirements for doctrine are approved by the 
Basic Military Training Triennial Review Committee or, if out of cycle, through the Air 
Force Learning Committee. (T-1) 
1.4.3.  Major commands, reserve components, and Air Staff organizations contribute their 
aggregate experience to the development of doctrine publications. These organizations: 
1.4.3.1.  Assist in the research, development, and assessment of basic and operational 
service-level doctrine and associated joint and multinational doctrine publications. (T-1) 
1.4.3.2.  Ensure education programs under their purview are consistent with Air Force 
doctrine through consultation with, and support from, the LeMay Center. (T-1) 
1.4.3.3.  Designate subject matter experts to assist in drafting or revising service, joint, and 
multinational doctrine projects as requested by the LeMay Center. (T-1) 
1.4.3.4.  Maintain an office responsible for coordination of all relevant doctrinal matters. 
(T-1) 
1.4.4.  Commander, Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education: 
1.4.4.1.  Serves as the Air Force principal agent for doctrine and advises the CSAF on key 
doctrine issues. (T-1) 
1.4.4.2.  Represents the Air Force as a member of the Joint Action Steering Committee for 
management and approval of multi-service doctrine published by the Air Land Sea Space 
Application (ALSSA) Center. For additional information on ALSSA, see para 3.2.3. (T-
1) 
1.4.5.  LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education: 
1.4.5.1.  Represents the official Air Force position in joint doctrine and represents the 
United States’ position for airpower issues in multinational doctrine. (T-1) 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
5 
1.4.5.2.  Coordinates doctrine development directly with the joint staff’s Joint Force 
Development Directorate (JS/J7), the Army’s Training and Doctrine Command, the Navy 
Warfare Development Command, the Marine Corps Combat Development Command, 
United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), and the United States Space 
Force’s Space Training and Readiness Command. (T-1) 
1.4.5.3.  Communicates directly with Air Force major commands, reserve components, Air 
Staff organizations, other services, USSOCOM, the joint staff, and other countries on 
matters related to service, joint, and multinational doctrine development and education, as 
appropriate. (T-1) 
1.4.5.4.  Certifies all basic and operational doctrine publishing actions, as well as multi-
service tactics, techniques, and procedures. This certification validates the products are 
official Air Force doctrine. (T-1) 
1.4.5.5.  Serves as lead agent when the Air Force is tasked by the JS/J7 for the development 
of selected joint and multinational doctrine. (T-1) 
1.4.5.6.  Serves as the Air Force’s single point of contact for service, joint, multinational, 
and multi-service doctrine research, development, staffing, publication, dissemination, and 
advocacy. (T-1) 
1.4.5.7.  Serves as the Air Force’s primary review authority for joint doctrine publications, 
when designated as lead agent by the JS/J7 in accordance with CJCSI 5120.02, Joint 
Doctrine Development System. (T-1) 
1.4.5.8.  Serves as service coordinating review authority for joint doctrine when the Air 
Force is not designated lead agent. (T-1) 
1.4.5.9.  Serves as the focal point for formulating and implementing policy related to Air 
Force terminology and provides the overall direction, management, and implementation of 
military terminology standardization within the Air Force. (T-1) 
1.4.5.10.  Maintains a website for doctrine dissemination. (T-1) 
1.4.5.11.  Liaises with other service and joint professional military education schools and 
foreign militaries to facilitate an understanding of airpower. Maintains Air Force 
representation at selected US Army schools and centers, providing liaison and advice on 
Air Force doctrine, service organization, mission, equipment capabilities, and joint 
doctrine. (T-1) 
1.4.5.12.  Participates in the United States Air Force Warfare Center-led tactics review 
board, and appropriate working groups, to facilitate the integration of doctrine into TTPs. 
(T-1) 
1.4.5.13.  Conducts the coordination process for ALSSA TTPs. (T-1) 
1.4.5.14.  Collaborates and plans multinational doctrine development and education with 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization national and command representatives, Air Force 
Interoperability Council representatives, US service representatives, and unified combatant 
command representatives. (T-1) 
 
 
6 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
1.4.5.15.  Serves as US principal delegate (Head of Delegation) to the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization’s Air Operations Working Group and the Joint Capability Group for 
Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operational Syndicate in accordance with CJCSI 2700.01, 
Rationalization, Standardization, and Interoperability Activities, when assigned by the 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans, Installations, and Mission Support (AF/A5/7). (T-
1) 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
7 
Chapter 2 
DOCTRINE DEVELOPMENT 
2.1.  Air Force Doctrine Development and Revision.  The guiding principle is to ensure Air 
Force doctrine remains timely, accurate, and relevant. Air Force doctrine projects, which include 
the development of new or the revision of existing service doctrine, use the procedures outlined in 
the paragraphs below. The LeMay Center/CC may approve deviations. (T-1) 
2.2.  Doctrine Summit.  The CSAF-chaired Doctrine Summit is held annually to review the status 
of Air Force doctrine, and to review and provide guidance on the prioritization and validation of 
doctrinal issues. The Summit is attended by major command commanders and other senior Air 
Force officials as the CSAF deems appropriate. The results of the Summit provide overarching 
senior leadership direction for Air Force doctrine. 
2.3.  Air Force Doctrine Development Process.  New doctrine may be developed or existing 
doctrine revised at the direction of the CSAF or principal agent, or as a result of a recognized 
shortfall in doctrinal guidance. Air Force doctrine projects are accomplished through the following 
procedures: 
2.3.1.  The LeMay Center, major commands, reserve components, or Headquarters Air Force 
2-letter organizations may propose new basic and operational doctrine products and revisions 
with general officer endorsement. Organizations must submit proposals to the LeMay Center 
Director of Doctrine Development (LeMay Center/AFDD). (T-1) 
2.3.2.  LeMay Center/AFDD will analyze any recommended new doctrine content. (T-1) The 
analysis will be presented to organizations with equities regarding the topic under examination 
and will include an assessment as to whether the proposal meets the following criteria: 
2.3.2.1.  Describes specific Air Force operations and provides specific operational or 
strategic-level effects in support of a specific objective (relevance). (T-1) 
2.3.2.2.  Describes 
operational-level 
doctrine 
as 
opposed 
to 
tactical 
doctrine 
(appropriateness). (T-1) 
2.3.2.3.  Describes a set of operations and command authorities distinct from those that 
currently exist for another similar function, mission, or task, or that fit completely under 
the umbrella of higher-level doctrine (distinctiveness). (T-1) 
2.3.2.4.  Sufficient operational material exists that it cannot be adequately described within 
the context of existing discussion, thus warranting a stand-alone doctrinal discussion 
(sufficiency). (T-1) 
2.3.3.  LeMay Center/AFDD will consolidate responses from organizations with sufficient 
equities regarding the proposal, along with the LeMay Center analysis, and make a 
recommendation to the LeMay Center/CC on whether or not to proceed with the proposal. (T-
1) 
2.3.4.  LeMay Center/AFDD will explore relevant sources including lessons learned files from 
past or ongoing operations; extant and emerging joint, multinational, and Air Force doctrine; 
and other sources, as appropriate, to contribute to the proposed content. (T-1) 
8 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
2.3.5.  LeMay Center/AFDD will direct coordination actions to the major commands, reserve 
components, select Air Staff organizations or other service components as appropriate. LeMay 
Center/AFDD will also make information regarding the proposed doctrine products available 
to all Air Force organizations.  Non-targeted organizations wanting to coordinate on a specific 
doctrine product should notify the LeMay Center/AFDD, who will add validated organizations 
to the coordination action. (T-1) The following are coordination considerations: 
2.3.5.1.  Coordination may be for specific content or an entire document. (T-1) 
2.3.5.2.  The LeMay Center/CC determines the level of coordination and approval required 
for any given doctrine product. (T-1) 
2.3.5.3.  LeMay Center/AFDD will incorporate any identified administrative changes into 
the Air Force doctrine library without additional coordination. (T-1) 
2.3.5.4.  Substantive changes involving information that is not contentious (e.g., a newly 
approved joint definition that does not affect Air Force doctrinal text) will also be 
incorporated without additional coordination. (T-1) 
2.3.5.5.  Upon completion of coordination, the LeMay Center will conduct a post-
coordination statutory/regulatory review with the Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) and 
Air University Public Affairs (AU/PA), acting on behalf of Air Force Public Affairs 
(SAF/PA). (T-1) 
2.3.6.  LeMay Center/AFDD will notify all organizations when changes have been made to 
Air Force doctrine. (T-1) 
2.3.7.  LeMay Center/AFDD will review doctrine products for currency using two factors: (T-
1) 
2.3.7.1.  Joint doctrine development timeline: If an Air Force doctrine topic can be affected 
by or influence changes to joint doctrine it should be reviewed for currency and accuracy 
before the comparable joint publication revision process is complete. (T-1) 
2.3.7.2.  Regular review: If Air Force doctrine has not been reviewed for two years, LeMay 
Center/AFDD will review it for currency and present recommendations to the LeMay 
Center/CC for approval. (T-1) 
2.4.  Terminology.  The Air Force will use and develop terminology in accordance with 
Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 5025.12, Standardization of Military and Associated 
Terminology, and CJCSI 5705.01, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology. The 
LeMay Center will designate an Air Force terminologist to be the focal point for Air Force 
terminology and to support the Department of Defense terminology program. (T-1) 
2.4.1.  Per DODI 5025.12, the Air Force will use the Department of Defense Dictionary of 
Military and Associated Terms (DoD Dictionary) as the primary terminology source when 
preparing correspondence, to include policy, strategy, doctrine, and planning documents. This 
does not restrict the use and publication of terms and definitions for unique functional areas, 
but these terms should not conflict with existing joint terminology. (T-1) 
 
 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
9 
 
2.4.2.  Only when common English dictionary or DoD Dictionary terminology is inadequate 
for Air Force use should development of Air Force-unique terms be considered. Terms 
proposed for inclusion in the Air Force glossary will be developed in accordance with guidance 
in CJCSI 5705.01, and an appropriate proponent Air Force doctrine publication will be 
identified. Terms will then be included in the staffing and final approval of the proponent 
doctrine document. (T-1) 
10 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
Chapter 3 
TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES 
3.1.  Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures.  TTPs are tactical doctrine that describes the proper 
employment of specific capabilities, individually or in concert with other capabilities, to 
accomplish tactical objectives. 
3.2.  Types of TTPs.  Air Force TTPs are developed as one of three types: weapons system TTPs, 
support TTPs, and multi-service TTPs. While Air Force TTPs are developed by various sources, 
all Air Force TTPs should be consistent with and support basic and operational level doctrine. (T-
1) 
3.2.1.  Weapons system TTPs are developed by weapons system subject matter experts and are 
published by the 561st Weapons Squadron (WS) at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada. These TTPs 
directly support specific weapons systems. Headquarters Air Combat Command’s Weapons 
and Tactics Division (ACC/A3TW) and 561 WS coordinate and assign numbers to the TTPs 
as Air Force TTP (AFTTP) 3-1 and 3-3 series publications. The appropriate major command 
director of operations is the approval authority. DAF Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publishing 
Processes and Procedures, provides guidance on formatting and formal coordination of 
weapons system TTPs. 
3.2.2.  Support TTPs are developed by the 423d Mobility Training Squadron at Joint Base 
McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst, New Jersey, by AF/A4 or AF/SG, or by other Air Staff organizations 
or major commands. These TTPs are intended to support military actions not necessarily 
directly linked to specific weapons systems. These TTPs are assigned numbers and 
deconflicted by the developer or issuer. DAFMAN 90-161 provides guidance on formatting 
and formal coordination of support TTPs. 
3.2.3.  Multi-service TTPs (AFTTP 3-2 series publications) are developed by ALSSA at Joint 
Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia, or by the appropriate Air Force or other service lead 
organizations. Multi-service TTPs are approved by two or more military services and enter 
each service’s library as a service TTP. Multi-service TTPs are typically formatted similar to 
joint doctrine publications and numbering assignment is through the LeMay Center. Formal 
coordination for ALSSA multi-service TTPs is in accordance with ALSSA standard operating 
procedures. DAFMAN 90-161 provides guidance for formal coordination of other Air Force-
approved multi-service TTPs that are managed by the LeMay Center/AFDD or appropriate AF 
organization. 
 
JAMES C. SLIFE 
Lieutenant General, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
11 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
CJCSI 2700.01, Rationalization, Standardization, and Interoperability Activities, 11 Feb 19 
CJCSI 5120.02E, Joint Doctrine Development System, 6 Nov 20 
CJCSI 5705.01F, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology, 15 Sep 17 
Joint Publication 3-16, Multinational Operations, 01 Mar 19, validated 12 Feb 21 
Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated 
Terms, (Washington DC: The Joint Staff, Nov 21) 
DODI 5025.12, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology, 05 Mar 20 
DAFPD 10-13, Air Force Doctrine, 12 Jan 23 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 15 Apr 22 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 Mar 20 
Air Force Doctrine Publication 1, The Air Force, 10 Mar 21 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 14 Apr 22 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFI—Air Force instruction 
AFTTP—Air Force tactics, techniques, and procedures 
ALSSA—Air Land Sea Space Application (ALSSA) Center 
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction 
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force instruction 
DAFMAN—Department of the Air Force manual 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force policy directive 
DoD Dictionary—Department of Defense Dictionary 
DODI—Department of Defense instruction 
12 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
OPR—office of primary responsibility 
TTP—tactics, techniques, and procedures 
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command 
WS—Weapons Squadron 
Office Symbols 
ACC/A3TW—Headquarters Air Combat Command, Weapons and Tactics Division 
AF/A1—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services 
AF/A3—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AF/A3/A5—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements 
AF/A4—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection 
AF/A5/7—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans, Installations, and Mission Support 
AF/JA—The Office of The Judge Advocate General 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
AU/PA—Air University Public Affairs 
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
JS/J7—Directorate for Joint Force Development 
LeMay Center/AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Development Directorate, Curtis E. LeMay Center 
for Doctrine Development and Education 
LeMay Center/CC—Commander, Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and 
Education 
SAF/PA—Air Force Public Affairs 
Terms 
Basic doctrine—The most fundamental and enduring beliefs that describe and guide the proper 
use, presentation, and organization of Air Force forces in military action. 
Joint doctrine—Fundamental principles that guide the employment of United States military 
forces in coordinated action toward a common objective and may include terms, tactics, 
techniques, and procedures. (CJCSI 5120.02E, Joint Doctrine Development System) 
Joint publication—A compilation of agreed-to fundamental principles, considerations, and 
guidance on a particular topic, approved by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that guides 
the employment of a joint force toward a common objective. (CJCSI 5120.02E, Joint Doctrine 
Development System) 
Multinational doctrine—The agreed upon fundamental principles that guide the employment of 
forces of two or more nations in coordinated action toward a common objective. (Joint Publication 
3-16, Multinational Operations) 
AFI10-1301  26 APRIL 2023 
13 
Operational doctrine—Doctrine that guides the proper organization and employment of airpower 
forces in the context of distinct objectives, force capabilities, broad functional areas, and 
operational environments. 
Tactical doctrine—Describes the proper employment of specific Air Force assets, individually or 
in concert with other assets, to accomplish detailed objectives. 
 
