BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1302 
30 JULY 2019 
Operations 
AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED 
PROGRAM 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e- Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: LeMay Center/AFLL 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI90-1601,  
                        18 December 2013 
Certified by: AF/A3TF  
(Lt Col Deane E. Thomey) 
Pages: 30 
 
 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-13, Air Force Doctrine and 
Lessons Learned.  It provides guidance for the Air Force Lessons Learned Program to include 
developing standards for major activities under the Air Force Lessons Learned Process.  It covers 
all activities associated with lessons learned support for operations, exercise, experiment, and 
wargame after action reports as well as other lessons learned activities.  This instruction guides 
Air Force positions to the Joint Lessons Learned Program and the joint community on lessons 
learned matters.  This instruction applies to all Air Force military, civilian, and contractor 
personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard.  This Air Force Instruction 
(AFI) may be supplemented by Air Force Major Commands or other subordinate levels, but needs 
to be coordinated with the LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned prior to 
approval.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of 
Primary Responsibility using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of 
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are 
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed 
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records 
Information Management System.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this 
publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance 
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the 
authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of 
2 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication 
Office of Primary Responsibility for non-tiered compliance items. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document is substantially revised and should be completely reviewed.  The revision aligns 
the Air Force Lessons Learned program from Headquarters United States Air Force A9, Studies, 
Analyses, and Assessments (AFPD 90-16), to Headquarters United States Air Force A3, 
Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AFPD 10-13), due to the Headquarters United States Air 
Force reorganization effective 1 October 2014.  The revision is more closely aligned with the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3150.25G, Joint Lessons Learned 
Program.  Clarification has been made to Chapter 8 for the role of 25th Air Force’s (formerly Air 
Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency) system management of the Joint 
Worldwide Intelligence Communications System (JWICS) Joint Lessons Learned Information 
System. Additionally, the results from the Headquarters United States Air Force Information 
Management compliance assessment review of the lessons learned program have been 
incorporated. 
 
Chapter 1— PROGRAM OVERVIEW 
 
5 
1.1. 
 Overview.   ..............................................................................................................  
5 
1.2. 
 Purpose.  .................................................................................................................  
5 
1.3. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Program.   ...........................................................................  
5 
1.4. 
 LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned will:  ............................  
5 
1.5. 
 Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System Integration.  ....................  
5 
Figure 1.1. 
 Air Force Lessons Learned Process. .......................................................................  
6 
Chapter 2— ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
8 
2.1. 
 The LeMay Center Commander: ............................................................................  
8 
2.2. 
 Major Commands, Forward Operating Agency, Direct Reporting Units, United 
States Air Force Components. .................................................................................  
9 
2.3. 
 All Airmen. .............................................................................................................  
10 
Chapter 3— COLLECTION 
 
11 
3.1. 
 Purpose.  .................................................................................................................  
11 
3.2. 
 Types of Collections.   ............................................................................................  
11 
3.3. 
 Techniques and Tools.   ..........................................................................................  
12 
3.4. 
 General Lessons Learned Collection Approach. .....................................................  
12 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
3 
3.5. 
 Observation Submission Procedures. ......................................................................  
12 
3.6. 
 After Action Reporting.  .........................................................................................  
13 
Chapter 4— VALIDATION 
 
14 
4.1. 
 Purpose.  .................................................................................................................  
14 
4.2. 
 Validation Authority (Staff Functional and/or Operational Subject Matter 
Expert). ....................................................................................................................  
14 
Chapter 5— DISSEMINATION 
 
16 
5.1. 
 Purpose.  .................................................................................................................  
16 
5.2. 
 Dissemination Techniques. .....................................................................................  
16 
Chapter 6— RESOLUTION 
 
17 
6.1. 
 Purpose.  .................................................................................................................  
17 
6.2. 
 Tracking Issue Resolution.  ....................................................................................  
17 
6.3. 
 Closure of Lesson Actions.   ...................................................................................  
18 
Chapter 7— AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM ORIENTATION 
 
19 
7.1. 
 Purpose.  .................................................................................................................  
19 
7.2. 
 Air Force Lessons Learned Orientation.  ................................................................  
19 
7.3. 
 Lessons Learned Collection Team Orientation.   ....................................................  
19 
7.4. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System Orientation.   ......................................  
19 
7.5. 
 United States Air Force Central Command Lessons Learned Forward Deployed 
Team Orientation.   ..................................................................................................  
19 
Chapter 8— JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM 
 
20 
8.1. 
 Department of Defense system of record for Joint Lessons Learned Program.  .....  
20 
8.2. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System.  ..........................................................  
20 
8.3. 
 System Administration. ..........................................................................................  
20 
8.4. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System Business Rules. ..................................  
20 
8.5. 
 Disputes between Tiers ...........................................................................................  
21 
8.6. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System Maintenance  .....................................  
21 
8.7. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration Review Board. ............  
22 
8.8. 
 Network Security. ...................................................................................................  
23 
4 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
8.9. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System T-1 Administrators and T-2 
Command Lesson Managers  ...................................................................................  
24 
8.10. 
 Tracking Database Management.  ...........................................................................  
25 
8.11. 
 Joint Lessons Learned Information System Orientation  ........................................  
25 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
27 
Attachment 2— AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING 
GROUP 
 
29 
 
 
 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
5 
Chapter 1 
PROGRAM OVERVIEW 
1.1.  Overview.   This publication establishes guidance and procedures for the Air Force Lessons 
Learned Program. 
1.2.  Purpose.   The Air Force Lessons Learned Program exists to enhance readiness and improve 
combat capability by capitalizing on the experiences of Airmen. A lesson learned is an Observation 
that, when validated and resolved, becomes an evaluated insight resulting in an improvement in 
military operations or activities at the strategic, operational, or tactical level.  It results in long-
term, internalized change to an individual or an organization.  Coupling lessons learned with 
concept development, experiments, and analysis should also assist senior leaders in programming, 
budgeting, and allocating resources as well as making changes to doctrine, organization, training, 
materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, and policy. A lessons learned Observation 
is not a compliance “report card” nor is it automatically accepted and implemented without the 
scrutiny of functional experts.  A lesson learned is also not “owned” by any one organization.  
Rather, the mandate for all organizations participating in the Air Force Lessons Learned Program 
is to coordinate activities and collaboratively exchange Observations and Lessons Identified for 
the benefit of the total Air Force mission. 
1.3.  Joint Lessons Learned Program.    The Joint Lessons Learned Program is governed by 
CJCSI 3150.25G.  In support of the Joint Lessons Learned Program, the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Program will: 
1.3.1.  Provide and maintain Joint Lessons Learned Program support for Air Force-specific 
tactical, operational and strategic level lessons. (T-0) 
1.3.2.  Submit Lessons Identified that affect the joint community or requiring joint Resolution 
to the Joint Staff. (T-0) 
1.4.  LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned will:  
1.4.1.  Represent the Air Force to the Joint Staff and the Joint Lessons Learned Program 
community on Joint Lessons Learned Program matters except when the Joint Lessons Learned 
Program matter only applies to a specific Unified Combatant Command. (T-0) Air Force 
matters only applying to a specific Unified Combatant Command are represented by the United 
States Air Force Component to that Unified Combatant Command. 
1.4.2.  Provide personnel and technical expertise to document Lessons Identified, analyze 
causation and impact, train Collection team subject matter experts as able, and coordinate Air 
Force subject matter expert’s participation in Joint Lessons Learned Program activities. (T-0) 
1.4.3.  Track and coordinate joint Lessons Identified within the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Program. (T-0) 
1.5.  Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System Integration.   Lessons learned 
involvement and participation in the Joint Lessons Learned Program includes: 
1.5.1.  Monitoring joint lessons learned products to include the Joint Capabilities Integration 
and Development System and Joint Staff Action Processing systems. 
6 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
1.5.2.  Assisting Headquarters United States Air Force and Major Command offices with Joint 
lessons learned submissions and Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and 
Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy Change Request development. 
1.5.3.  Air Force Lessons Learned Process.   The Air Force Lessons Learned Process 
involves four distinct components; Collection, Validation, Dissemination and Resolution.  
These components will be further discussed in chapters 3-6.  Figure 1.1 depicts the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Process. 
Figure 1.1.  Air Force Lessons Learned Process. 
 
1.5.4.  Collection. Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Program.  In an Air Force learning culture, every Airman can contribute to 
the Air Force Lessons Learned Program.  For more detail go to Chapter 3. 
1.5.5.  Validation. Validation consists of review by a staff functional and/or operational expert 
to confirm an Observation has identifiable lessons to be processed through the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Program.  Once validated, an Observation becomes a Lesson Identified and 
represents a matter (e.g., capability, concept, process, or procedure) to be sustained, improved, 
or developed.  For more detail go to Chapter 4. 
 
 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
7 
1.5.6.  Dissemination. Dissemination is the communication and distribution of Lessons 
Identified to organizations, decision makers, and Airmen in time for them to make more 
informed decisions.  Means include, but are not limited to, publication of lessons learned 
reports, the use of the Joint Lessons Learned Information System databases, educational 
curriculum, senior leader briefings, transfer of Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
entries to lower or higher echelon lessons learned offices, and lessons learned bulletins. For 
more detail go to Chapter 5. 
1.5.7.  Resolution. Resolution is a process that ensures Lessons Identified become Lessons 
Learned and are implemented and not forgotten or ignored.  Lessons Identified are staffed for 
action and tracked to closure.  Tracking Lessons Identified continues throughout the life cycle 
of a validated Observation.  For more detail go to Chapter 6. 
1.5.8.  Identified lessons learned offices will establish procedures to resolve Lessons Identified 
and accomplish issue Resolution actions taken by Office of Primary Responsibility. (T-3)  
Lessons learned offices will ensure periodic updates are annotated in the Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System. (T-3)  Until Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and 
Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy changes from a Lesson Identified are implemented 
and become a Lesson Learned, Offices of Primary Responsibility and lessons learned offices 
will observe corrective actions and be vigilant for similar repeat Observations. (T-3) 
1.5.9.  The lessons learned process is not intended to bypass the chain of command.  A 
structured process is in place to review Observations by appropriate Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System T-1 Administrators, T-2 Command Lesson Managers, and functional 
subject matter experts. For more detail go to Chapter 8. 
1.5.10.  Due to their different mission and responsibilities, lessons learned functions may not 
be combined in the same office with Historians and/or Inspector General and/or 
standardization and evaluation functions. (T-1) Whereas the Inspector General and 
standardization and evaluation functions are tasked to provide an objective “report card” on 
organizational compliance, lessons learned functions are collaborative partnerships to capture 
and share lessons.  For similar reasons, the lessons learned program may not be combined with 
the Safety function at any echelon. (T-1) However, Lessons Identified in both Inspector 
General, Safety, and History functions should, when possible, be sent to the Air Force Lessons 
Learned Community. 
 
 
8 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  The LeMay Center Commander: 
2.1.1.  Oversees the Air Force Lessons Learned Program and the Air Force’s participation in 
the Joint Lessons Learned Program. 
2.1.2.  Serves as the chief lessons learned advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force. 
2.1.3.  Ensures the Air Force Lessons Learned Program meets the goals of United States Air 
Force leadership and the needs of Airmen and commanders at all levels. 
2.1.4.  Approves annual Air Force Lessons Learned Collection focus areas as endorsed by the 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force. 
2.1.5.  Requests each Headquarters United States Air Force 2-letter office (Secretariat and Air 
Staff) identify a point of contact for the Air Force Lessons Learned Program and address their 
Observations through the Air Force Lessons Learned Process. 
2.1.6.  The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned: 
2.1.6.1.  Serves as the Office of Primary Responsibility for the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Program.  Provides guidance and establishes processes for the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Process to include developing standards for major activities under the Air Force Lessons 
Learned Process. 
2.1.6.2.  Provides an orientation on lessons learned Collections and the Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System. These orientations are available on a request basis for the 
development of members of the Air Force Lessons Learned community. For more detail 
go to Chapter 7. 
2.1.6.3.  Manages the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System on behalf of 
the Air Force. The Air Force Lessons Learned Directorate ensures Air Force personnel 
have ready access to these lessons learned processes and information through the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System. 
2.1.6.4.  Assists Air Force organizations in performing lessons learned activities. 
2.1.6.5.  Addresses Lessons Identified forwarded by subordinate lessons learned 
organizations and Observations submitted by the Headquarter United States Air Force 
staff.  Tracks Air Force-level Lessons Identified through the Resolution process and assists 
information crossflow between offices of primary responsibility and offices of collateral 
responsibility working their implementation. 
2.1.6.6.  Provides lessons learned inputs to Headquarters United States Air Force corporate 
processes.  Additionally, the Directorate provides the Air Force position to the Joint 
Lessons Learned Program and advises the joint community on lessons learned matters. 
2.1.6.7.  Collects Headquarters United States Air Force-level Lessons Identified from 
exercises and contingency operations to support current and future warfighters. 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
9 
2.1.6.8.  Accomplishes lessons learned studies and Collection activities, in cooperation 
with other research and Collection efforts, on specific topics/events as instructed by senior 
United States Air Force leadership.  Implements the annual LeMay Center Focus Area 
lessons learned Collection plan as endorsed by the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. 
2.1.6.9.  Integrates lessons learned with the Joint Staff, other Service, and non-Department 
of Defense government agencies. Integrates lessons learned activities and processes across 
the Total Force to synchronize Collections and disseminate information quickly. 
2.1.6.10.  Analyzes lessons learned content produced by other members of the lessons 
learned community, other government organizations, and research agencies to extract 
lessons applicable to Air Force operations not previously reported and/or acted upon.  
Disseminates this analysis to targeted Air Force organizations and through posting in Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System. 
2.1.6.11.  Reviews after action reports and any Collection reports to extract and act upon 
any Lessons Identified not previously reported and or acted upon.  Disseminates this 
analysis to targeted Air Force organizations and through posting in Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System. 
2.2.  Major Commands, Forward Operating Agency, Direct Reporting Units, United States 
Air Force Components. 
2.2.1.  Major Commands, Forward Operating Agency, Direct Reporting Units, United States 
Air Force Components will designate an organization as lead for lessons learned activities. (T-
3) 
2.2.2.  The Major Command/Forward Operating Agency/Direct Reporting Units/United States 
Air Force Components lessons learned organization will: 
2.2.2.1.  Serve as Office of Primary Responsibility for the lessons learned program. (T-3) 
2.2.2.2.  Ensure lessons learned Collection processes are established and implemented. (T-
3) Ensure organizations add a Joint lessons Learned Information System review for any 
applicable lessons learned to unit coordination and approval processes. (T-3) Ensure 
lessons learned Collection reports and after action reports are posted in the Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System and Lessons Identified are addressed for major operations, 
contingencies, key exercises, experiments, and other significant events and topics 
identified by leadership. (T-3) 
2.2.2.3.  Ensure Observations and after action reports are entered into the Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System no later than 30 days after the event. (T-3) 
2.2.2.4.  Establish a process to validate Observations and share lessons learned products’ 
Lessons Identified with other Major Commands, Numbered Air Forces, and lower echelons 
through the Air Force Lessons Learned Program. (T-3) 
2.2.2.5.  Elevate to the LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned any 
Lessons Identified with implications across the Air Force or that are beyond the scope of 
the organization’s authority to address. (T-3) 
 
 
10 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
2.2.2.6.  Ensure United States Air Force Components to a Unified Combatant Command 
participate in both the Air Force Lessons Learned Process and in the Unified Combatant 
Command’s lessons learned process (as the air component).  These roles overlap as Air 
Force organizations may have an interest in operational lessons originating in other areas 
of responsibility and the Unified Combatant Command may have an interest in Air Force 
initiatives that can improve operations in that theater. 
2.2.2.7.  Facilitate the expedient up-channeling of after action reports and Lessons 
Identified through the Air Force Lessons Learned Process and the Unified Combatant 
Command’s lessons learned process, as appropriate. (T-3) 
2.2.2.8.  Represent their organization’s participation in, or provide input to the LeMay 
Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned for lessons learned activities. (T-3) 
2.2.2.9.  Participate with Headquarters United States Air Force, Major Command, Joint, 
and Interagency lessons learned activities. (T-3) 
2.2.2.10.  Work with Major Commander/Forward Operating Agency/Direct Reporting 
Unit/United States Air Force Component Air Staff and special staff planning teams to 
incorporate applicable lessons to support the full spectrum of military operations. (T-3) 
2.2.2.11.  Share on a Bi-quarterly basis Fiscal Year plans, schedules, and activities via the 
Headquarters United States Air Force Lessons Learned Community Calendar on the Joint 
Lessons 
Learned 
Information 
System 
Collection 
Analysis 
Plans 
webpage 
(https://www.jllis.mil/apps/index.cfm?do=Collectionplan:main) or Air Force Lessons 
Learned organization email (LEMAYCENTER.LL.Workflow.1@us.af.mil) and 
provide updates as they are available.  (T-3) 
2.3.  All Airmen. 
2.3.1.  All Airmen are encouraged to create an account on the Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System; this account will allow them to enter Observations that contain potential 
lessons learned into this system. The Joint Lessons Learned Information System is the program 
of record for the Department of Defense Joint Lessons Learned Program and the most 
appropriate way for capturing, communicating and disseminating lessons learned. 
2.3.2.  Individuals or organizations lacking access to the Joint Lessons Learned Information 
System website may use Air Force Forms 4329, AF Observation, Issue, or Lessons Learned, 
and 4330, After Action Summary Report, to record their Observations and e-mail them directly 
to the appropriate Numbered Air Force, Major Command, or LeMay Center Directorate of Air 
Force Lessons Learned.  Both forms are available online at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. 
 
 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
11 
Chapter 3 
COLLECTION 
3.1.  Purpose.    Collection is the method by which Observations initially enter the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Process.  Observations can be “pulled” into the process through formal lessons 
learned Collection efforts, or they can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units, or 
individuals.  In a learning culture, every Airman can contribute to the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Program by collecting Observations and submitting them into the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Process, either by inputting them into the Joint Lessons Learned Information System or by 
submitting an AF Form 4329 or AF Form 4330 to their lessons learned office T-1 site at the Major 
Command. 
3.2.  Types of Collections.    Lessons Learned Collections are normally accomplished at the 
request of leadership or nominated by the lessons learned staff.  Lessons learned staff notionally 
leads the directed Collection effort with inputs from subject matter experts, but they can serve as 
mentors for another organization’s Collection effort.  Lessons Learned Collections capture the 
facts and participant Observations regarding a combat or non-combat event.  The Collection can 
occur at the strategic, operational, and/or tactical level.  There are three types of Lessons Learned 
Collections: 
3.2.1.  Event Collection.  Captures the facts and participant Observations regarding a combat 
or non-combat event as it occurs.  The Collection can occur at the strategic, operational, and/or 
tactical level.  Examples include combatant commander exercises, such as TERMINAL 
FURY, or contingencies, such as Superstorm Sandy or Operation INHERENT RESOLVE.  
Event Collections may be accomplished two ways: 
3.2.1.1.  Participative Collection.  The lessons learned staff performs two roles during the 
event.  First, they participate in the unit’s operational battle rhythm, attend staff meetings, 
and/or provide real-time inputs to the commander’s planning and decision process.  
Second, the staff forms teams to collect data at the tactical, operational, and/or strategic 
levels.  Large-scale operations, such as disaster relief operations, might involve teams from 
LeMay Center, Headquarters United States Air Force, Major Commands, Numbered Air 
Forces, other Services, and Unified Combatant Commands collecting data either 
independently or in concert based on goals.  However, organizations involved should 
coordinate efforts to the maximum extent possible in order to minimize demands on units 
during ongoing operations. 
3.2.1.2.  Observational Collection.  A lessons learned team records the organizational 
structures, processes, and resources used to accomplish a mission or event so that tacit 
knowledge gained during the event can be explicitly documented, stored, and retrieved for 
later use during similar events. 
 
 
12 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
3.2.2.  After-event Collection.  Captures important best practices or issues.  Reconstructs 
specific events or combat operations after the fact to gain a better understanding of the event’s 
successes and challenges.  Air Force Lessons Learned Process allows an organization to 
capture historical events and share lessons gained from participants’ knowledge and 
experience, even though the Lessons Identified may already be resolved and no further actions 
are needed.  This can be done in coordination with historians and other researchers, but is not 
intended to duplicate their work. 
3.2.3.  Topical Collection.  Focuses on a specific subject or cyclic processes (e.g., surveys, 
focus areas, etc.) based on an Air Force organization’s desire to further examine or collect 
information about a specific topic. 
3.3.  Techniques and Tools.    Lessons learned Collections can employ the full range of 
techniques and tools, tailored to the specific situation. Techniques and tools include direct 
observation, in-person interviews, commanders’ exit interviews, surveys, database submissions by 
participants, after action reports, inspection results, data and database mining, and document 
capturing.  Sharing of data between learning organizations is highly encouraged, especially via the 
Joint Lessons Learned Information System online database. 
3.4.  General Lessons Learned Collection Approach. 
3.4.1.  When possible, Collections should be coordinated in advance with involvement of 
lessons learned staff subject matter experts.  Collections on many important events (e.g., 
combat operations, contingencies, etc.) are often conducted with little or no notice.  Individuals 
consult with lessons learned staff on Collection techniques and should be prepared to apply 
them during the Collection. 
3.4.2.  Where possible, a lessons learned Collection within an organization’s area of 
responsibility should be augmented as required by other lessons learned offices and subject 
matters experts.  For most Collections, subject matter experts and functional area experts are 
better suited to observe and document employment of their respective processes. 
3.4.3.  The lessons learned office (at any level) normally leads Collection efforts. LeMay 
Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned participation with other lessons learned 
organizations in Chief of Staff of the Air Force-directed/multiple service/joint Collections 
permits better access to senior leadership and documents broader perspectives. 
3.5.  Observation Submission Procedures. 
3.5.1.  Air Force Lessons Learned Process procedures standardize Observation submission and 
management at all Air Force echelons.  Observation submission procedures consist of 
collecting Observations of events and operations, reviewing, and entering them into the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System.  Lower echelons need to address Observations at their 
level and forward those beyond their scope to the appropriate level. 
3.5.2.  Observation submission procedures apply to all units either conducting their routine 
missions or participating in contingencies and/or exercises (e.g., combat operations, 
humanitarian operations, base closures, peacekeeping operations, noncombatant evacuations, 
exercises, etc.). 
3.5.3.  Observations should flow from the reporting individual and agency to the reviewing 
office or functional expert and, if required, to the next higher level lessons learned office. 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
13 
3.6.  After Action Reporting.  
3.6.1.  After action reports are intended to help Airmen learn from experience to fight a 
smarter, more capable fight.  The next Airmen to deploy, to participate in that exercise, to train 
for that type contingency, etc., should benefit from reports submitted by those who have gone 
before.  Timely submission of after action reports (and the individual Observations which 
comprise them) is a command responsibility.  United States Air Force Component 
commanders, Air Expeditionary Task Force commanders, commanders of subordinate Air 
Expeditionary 
Task 
Force 
units, 
exercise/experiment 
directors, 
and 
other 
like 
commanders/directors will submit a unit-level after action report for the event (e.g., 
deployment, contingency, exercise, etc.) for which they are responsible. (T- 3) After action 
reports are posted in the Joint Lessons Learned Information System and accessible to all 
registered users. 
3.6.2.  Observations to be documented are those which have or can result in improvements in 
military operations at the strategic, operational, or tactical level.  After action report 
Observations should describe how the mission could be/was improved, potential risks to 
mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks.  After action reports are intended to be 
more than a summary or rollup of unit/tactical actions.  Commanders/directors are not required 
to hold Observations until the end of an operation, exercise, or Air Expeditionary Force cycle 
for which the after action report will be produced.  After action reports will be submitted as 
soon as practical to permit timely action. (T-3) 
3.6.3.  Commanders/directors will ensure after action reports for operations not supported by 
a continuing Air Expeditionary Forces cycle (i.e., contingencies and exercises) will be 
submitted to Higher Headquarters no later than 45 days (for Air Reserve Component units 60 
days) after the end of the event unless otherwise directed. (T-3) 
3.6.4.  Owning organizations need to review after action reports to pull Observations for 
processing through the Air Force Lessons Learned Process and post after action reports to the 
Joint Lessons Learned Information System.  Lessons Identified during this review are entered 
into the Joint Lessons Learned Information System and disseminated to the appropriate Office 
of Primary Responsibility for information and Resolution. (T-3) 
 
 
14 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
Chapter 4 
VALIDATION 
4.1.  Purpose.   Validation consists of review by staff functionals and/or operational experts to 
confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed through the Air Force 
Lesson Process.  Validation gets to Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and 
Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy root causes of the Observation.  It ensures accuracy, 
applicability, and completeness, and activates the Observation into the Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System.  Once validated, an Observation becomes a Lesson Identified and represents 
a matter (e.g., capability, concept, process, procedure) to be sustained, improved, or developed; or 
a capability shortfall requiring corrective action.  A Lesson Identified contains a better way to 
accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader community. 
4.2.  Validation Authority (Staff Functional and/or Operational Subject Matter Expert). 
4.2.1.  The Validation authority has a key role in the Air Force Lessons Learned Process. 
Validation authorities will: 
4.2.1.1.  Review Observations for accuracy, applicability and completeness. If 
Observations do not meet these criteria, Validation authorities contact the originator for 
further clarification. (T-3) 
4.2.1.2.  Determine if an Observation had previously been addressed.  If the Observation 
duplicates previous Observations, it needs to be manually linked in the Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System with the previous Observations.  (T-3) 
4.2.1.3.  Determine the applicable guiding documents (e.g., statute, Department of 
Defense, or AFI). (T-3) 
4.2.1.4.  Analyze Observations for root causes to determine Doctrine, Organization, 
Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy actionable 
areas.  (T-3) 
4.2.1.5.  Submit Observations to the appropriate subject matter experts for evaluation.  
Once the subject matter expert confirms the Observation’s validity, it is processed as a 
Lesson Identified.  Inspector General, Historian, or standardization and evaluation offices 
may not be appointed as the evaluation agency.  (T-3) 
4.2.1.6.  Ensure Lessons Identified are returned to the originating Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System T-1 Administrator and/or T-2 Command Lessons Manager for 
Dissemination to issue Resolution offices of primary responsibility.  (T-3) 
4.2.1.7.  Forward Lessons Identified intended for the Headquarters United States Air Force 
staff through the Joint Lessons Learned Information System to LeMay Center Directorate 
of Air Force Lessons Learned. (T-3) 
4.2.1.8.  Inform the chain of command as to status of Observations submitted to higher 
level lessons learned offices. (T-3) 
4.2.2.  Validation subject matter experts may be instructors, staff functionals, career field 
functional managers, commanders, senior Air Force leaders, or reside within lessons learned 
offices. 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
15 
4.2.3.  Lessons Identified deemed as time-critical and/or mission-critical should be 
concurrently disseminated to other potentially interested organizations and individuals where 
mission impact may occur. 
 
 
16 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
Chapter 5 
DISSEMINATION 
5.1.  Purpose.    Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for action, 
along with making lessons available for wider use.  The goal of Dissemination is to get lessons to 
decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions. 
5.1.1.  Lessons may be disseminated through tasks, briefings, bulletins, reports, professional 
military curriculum, training courses, or database entries, such as Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System. 
5.1.2.  An Office of Primary Responsibility is tasked to either resolve to close a Lessons 
Identified requiring Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, 
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy action/changes or ensure Lessons Identified requiring wider 
Dissemination are appropriately promulgated. 
5.2.  Dissemination Techniques. 
5.2.1.  The guiding principle in executing a Dissemination strategy is to get the right 
information to the right person at the right time.  Dissemination of Lessons Identified to 
individuals or organizations may be solicited or unsolicited.  Techniques for either type of 
Dissemination encompass both “push” and “pull” methodologies. 
5.2.1.1.  “Push” methodologies transmit lessons proactively to identified recipients.  In this 
case, lessons learned specialists identify target audiences for Dissemination.  Examples of 
when to “push” Lessons Identified are when assisting planning staffs during emerging 
situations (e.g., exercises, experiments, contingencies, relief operations, etc.), assisting 
Headquarters staffs with Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution decisions, and 
when sending completed lessons learned documents such as after action reports to 
identified audiences via a subscription service.  Push solicited information when 
responding to a Request for Information.  In this case, lessons learned specialists may push 
relevant lessons on the particular event or topic to the requesting party. 
5.2.1.2.  “Pull” methodologies allow individuals to retrieve lessons by conducting Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System queries or by researching and retrieving published 
lessons learned reports and bulletins. 
5.2.2.  Other Dissemination processes may already exist within lower echelons or functional 
communities.  Examples include the Tactics Review Board process and the Maintenance 
Quality Assurance flash process.  Integration of Lessons Identified provides a mechanism to 
integrate the Air Force Lessons Learned Process with lower echelon processes. 
5.2.3.  Although Dissemination activities may be conducted using different approaches, the 
basic process step of identifying action items takes place for each Lesson Identified before 
submittal to the Resolution processes or inclusion in publications, reports, summaries, 
briefings, and analyses. 
 
 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
17 
Chapter 6 
RESOLUTION 
6.1.  Purpose.    During the Resolution process, Lessons Identified are tracked to ensure they 
become a Lessons Learned and are not forgotten or ignored.  Resolution ensures they are staffed 
for action (Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, 
Facilities, and Policy changed), captured in the Joint Lessons Learned Information System (or 
appropriate documents), and tracked to closure.  Tracking Lessons Identified is a process that 
occurs throughout the life cycle of a validated Observation. Resolution has three main objectives: 
6.1.1.  Enhance the Air Force’s and the joint community’s ability to learn from the conduct of 
operations across the levels of warfare, training activities, exercise events, and other activities. 
6.1.2.  Enhance warfighting capabilities by documenting potential solutions across Doctrine, 
Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy 
approaches and implementation decisions. 
6.1.3.  Support Air Force senior leaders’ decision making. 
6.2.  Tracking Issue Resolution.    Tracking Issue Resolution ensures Lessons Identified are 
worked to closure. Tracking Issue Resolution documentation establishes accountability for 
Resolution, monitors Resolution actions to closure, and provides a means of disseminating Lessons 
Identified. 
6.2.1.  LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned will: 
6.2.1.1.  Maintain a crossflow of Lessons Identified between the Headquarters United 
States Air Force, Services, Joint Staff, Unified Combatant Commands and other 
government organizations. 
6.2.1.2.  In conjunction with subject matter experts and subordinate lessons learned offices, 
track the status of Air Force Lessons Identified transferred to the Joint Lessons Learned 
Program.  Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with programmatic 
implications. 
6.2.1.3.  Provide orientation on Tracking Issue Resolution including the use of the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System for all Headquarters United States Air Force 
organizations.  The orientation includes techniques on integrating lessons into 
staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons between Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System Major Command T-1 Sites. 
6.2.2.  Major Command/Forward Operating Agency/Direct Reporting Units/United States Air 
Force Components will: 
6.2.2.1.  With the support of their respective Major Command/Forward Operating 
Agency/Direct Reporting Units/United States Air Force Component lessons learned 
organization, convene a recurring review board to track the status of lesson actions deemed 
critical to the organization. (T-3) These items may include, but are not limited to, items 
identified to the Joint Lessons Learned Program.  Active management of action items is 
essential for lessons with operational and programmatic implications. 
18 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
6.2.2.2.  Track the status of Lessons Identified to the Joint Lessons Learned Program and 
the organization’s critical lesson action items identified to the Major Command/Forward 
Operating Agency/Direct Reporting Units/United States Air Force Component.  (T-3) 
Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with programmatic and operational 
implications. 
6.2.2.3.  Provide guidance/orientation on organizationally developed Tracking Issue 
Resolution processes including the use of the Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
for their respective organizations.  (T-3) Guidance/orientation includes techniques on 
integrating lessons into staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of 
lessons between Joint Lessons Learned Information System Numbered Air 
Force/Wing/Center/Forward Operating Agency/Direct Reporting Unit T-2 Command 
Lessons Managers.  
6.2.3.  Numbered Air Force/Center/Unit Lessons Learned Organizations will: 
6.2.3.1.  Maintain a cross-flow of Lessons Identified within their command/functional 
community. (T-3) 
6.2.3.2.  Track the status of Numbered Air Force/Center/Unit Lessons Identified to the 
Joint Lessons Learned Program.  Tracking and coordination are essential for lessons with 
programmatic implications. (T-3) 
6.2.3.3.  Provide guidance/orientation on organizationally developed Tracking Issue 
Resolution processes including the use of the Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
for their respective organizations.  Guidance/orientation includes techniques on integrating 
lessons into staff/organization plans and operations as well as coordination of lessons 
between Joint Lessons Learned Information System T-2 Command Lessons Managers. (T-
3) 
6.3.  Closure of Lesson Actions.    Lessons Identified that are entered into an organization’s 
Resolution process should be resolved at the lowest level.  Actions for Lessons Identified may be 
closed when a solution has been implemented (i.e., Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, 
Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy change, incorporation into 
organizational change, exercise, experiment, or training) or a decision made to accept the risk of 
not implementing a solution.  Closed Lessons Identified need to be archived in the Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System for future reference and their final action/determination is 
disseminated and periodically reviewed. 
 
 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
19 
Chapter 7 
AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED PROGRAM ORIENTATION 
7.1.  Purpose.   The purpose of the Air Force Lessons Learned Program orientation is to ensure 
individuals assigned to lessons learned offices or as Collection team augmentees/subject matter 
experts receive appropriate lessons learned training to understand their role in the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Process. 
7.2.  Air Force Lessons Learned Orientation.   The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force 
Lessons Learned is responsible for oversight of the Air Force Lessons Learned Program orientation 
program.  LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned will provide a just-in-time 
orientation at Major Command’s request or when new Command Lessons Managers are assigned.  
Each lessons learned office will ensure its own internal orientation program is up to date with 
material found on the Air Force Lessons Learned Program websites: Non-Classified Internet 
Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet): https://www.jllis.mil, Secret Internet Protocol Router 
Network 
(SIPRNet): 
 
https://www.jllis.smil.mil, 
or 
Joint 
Worldwide 
Intelligence 
Communications System (JWICS): https://jllis.jsj7ex.ic.gov/  or by contacting the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Directorate at LEMAYCENTER.LL.Workflow.1@us.af.mil. Each lessons 
learned office will establish guidelines to maintain currency for members supporting their lessons 
learned program.  (T-3) 
7.3.  Lessons Learned Collection Team Orientation.  Lessons learned offices will provide 
Collection team members an orientation prior to lessons learned Collection efforts. (T-3) The 
orientation includes Collection plan development, conduct of interviews, Collection management 
tools (e.g., Joint Lessons Learned Information System, interview management tools, etc.), data 
gathering techniques, product development, and Dissemination.  Lessons learned Collection team 
members and subject matter experts provide expertise required for a focused Collection.  The 
lessons learned Collection team lead is responsible for coordinating the orientation with the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System T-1 Administrator or T-2 Command Lessons Manager. 
7.4.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System Orientation.    Lessons learned offices provide 
Joint Lessons Learned Information System orientation to their organizations and lower echelons.  
The local orientation should emphasize use of the Joint Lessons Learned Information System for 
capturing and managing Observations and Lessons Identified. 
7.5.  United States Air Force Central Command Lessons Learned Forward Deployed Team 
Orientation.    Deploying lessons learned personnel will attend a unit funded two-day lessons 
learned deployment-orientation seminar, hosted by The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force 
Lessons Learned.  The orientation includes an introduction to the United States Air Force Central 
Command daily processes, required reports, interviews, etc.  It should also address the 
fundamentals of the Joint Lessons Learned Information System (e.g., how to navigate the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System, how to load Observations and lessons, how to validate an 
Observation, how to track/close Observations and lessons, how to disseminate Observations and 
lessons learned to United States Air Force Central Command senior leaders). 
 
 
20 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
Chapter 8 
JOINT LESSONS LEARNED INFORMATION SYSTEM 
8.1.  Department of Defense system of record for Joint Lessons Learned Program.   The Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System is a web-based system that implements the requirements for 
the Joint Lessons Learned Program. Joint Lessons Learned Program provides transfer of 
knowledge within the Department of Defense through the rapid distribution of Observations and 
recommendations, after action reports; tactics, techniques and procedures; topic papers, briefings, 
and interviews. 
8.2.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
allows Air Force personnel to search, submit, and manage all Air Force Observations, Lessons 
Identified, after action reports, lessons learned and other information up to TOP 
SECRET/Sensitive Compartmented Information.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System is 
used to track and disseminate Lessons Identified throughout the Air Force, Department of Defense, 
and Intelligence Community. Joint Lessons Learned Information System provides lessons learned 
office management, data Collection, data management, and lessons learned information 
distribution. 
8.3.  System Administration. 
8.3.1.  The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned is responsible for system 
administration of the NIPRNet and SIPRNet Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information 
System master sites through coordination with Joint Staff/J7 and Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System programmers.  25th Air Force, on behalf of the Air Force Lessons Learned 
community, is responsible for facilitating submission and Resolution of lessons learned 
concerns on JWICS in coordination with The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons 
Learned and Joint Staff/J7.  The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned will 
provide administrative support, and Joint Staff/J7 (to include Joint Staff/J7 Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System programmers) shall provide administrative and system support to 
25th Air Force to the furthest extent possible, dependent on security clearances and available 
resources. 
8.3.2.  The Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program Manager will update 
the Joint Lessons Learned Information System User Guide and checklists, maintain a standard 
orientation package on the Joint Lessons Learned Information System home page, and update 
this instruction annually or when changes to the system and/or process occur. 
8.4.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System Business Rules. 
8.4.1.  The Air Force Lessons Learned Program operates under the guidance of CJCSI 
3150.25G and the following guidelines. (T-0) 
8.4.2.  A Tier-1 (T-1) Administrator is a Lesson Manager at the Headquarters United States 
Air Force and Major Command level.  A Tier-2 (T-2) Command Lessons 
Manager/Administrator is a Lesson Manager at the Numbered Air Force, Wing, or Center 
level.  All other sub-organizations are assigned as a Tier-3 (T-3) Organization Lesson Manager.  
A Lesson Manager is the manager of Observations and Lessons Identified at the T-1, T-2, or 
T-3 level.  A subject matter expert is a person within a Directorate, Command, or unit 
possessing expertise on an Observation, Issue, or Lesson Identified. 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
21 
8.4.3.  Validation Process.  T-1, T-2, and T-3 Lesson Managers and subject matter experts need 
to review all “Pending” lessons within their Tier.  Once an Observation is deemed valid, the 
T-1, T-2, or T-3 Lesson Manager will activate the Observation as a Lesson Identified and 
transfer it to the appropriate Office of Primary Responsibility/Office of Collateral 
Responsibility for review. (T-3)Observations that require work within the Tier need to be 
coordinated through the T-1/T-2/T-3 Lesson Manager or the appropriate Office of Primary 
Responsibility/Office of Collateral Responsibility.  Additionally, T-1 and T-2 Lesson 
Managers should also review “Pending” reports posted in the Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System Document/File Library and determine whether to “Activate or Close” so 
all reports will be visible to Joint Lessons Learned Information System users. 
8.4.4.  Coordinating Observations Outside a T-1 organization.  T-1 Lesson Managers will work 
together toward resolving an Observation’s ownership.  If the Office of Primary 
Responsibility/Office of Collateral Responsibility for an Observation belongs to another T-1 
organization, the owning T-1 Administrator will contact the appropriate T-1 Administrator for 
coordination before transferring.  Once transferred, the accepting T-1 organization assumes 
responsibility for the Observation.  If it is found that the Office of Primary 
Responsibility/Office of Collateral Responsibility is incorrect, the process begins again.  If 
ownership cannot be resolved at the T-1 level, the LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force 
Lessons Learned will resolve ownership.  All Lessons Identified are to be worked through to 
Resolution. 
8.5.  Disputes between Tiers 
8.5.1.  As Lesson Managers receive Observations submitted by Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System users, there may be occasions where a T-2 is not appropriate to validate 
that Observation.  In these cases, the T-2 Lesson Manager will transfer the Observation to their 
T-1 for reassignment.  When doing this, include results of any coordination in the “comment” 
section of the Observation in the Joint Lessons Learned Information System. 
8.5.2.  When Observation reassignments between T-2 Command Lessons Managers are 
disputed, the issue should be brought to the attention of the Major Command Lessons Learned 
Director to render a recommended assignment.  If the dispute continues, the Major Commander 
Lessons Learned Director will present it to the LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons 
Learned for Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group review and coordination.  The 
Lessons Learned General Officer Steering Group is chaired by the Air Force Vice Chief of 
Staff. The Air Force Vice Chief of Staff will serve as final arbiter of disputed Observations’ 
assignments if necessary. 
8.6.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System Maintenance  
8.6.1.  Tier Maintenance.  All T-1 Administrators should perform periodic Tier maintenance.  
Maintenance includes reviewing the status of “Active” Observations.  Any Observations that 
have not been worked in more than 30 days should be reviewed and readdressed by the T-1, 
T-2, or T-3 Lesson Manager through the Office of Primary Responsibility/Office of Collateral 
Responsibility for Resolution, closure, or removal from the database. 
8.6.1.1.  Observations that should be removed include the following: “Test Observations,” 
Observations that are incomplete or unfocused, complaints, or personal attacks. 
22 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
8.6.1.2.  Test Binders and after action reports should also be removed periodically to keep 
the Tier free of unnecessary information. 
8.6.2.  United States Air Force Components (i.e., Major Commands or Numbered Air Forces 
that are an air component) to a Unified Combatant Command may be asked by the Unified 
Combatant Command to participate in the Unified Combatant Command lessons learned 
program.  United States Air Force Components participate in their Unified Combatant 
Command’s lessons learned program as instructed by Unified Combatant Command policy 
and are authorized to coordinate Observations directly with their responsible Unified 
Combatant Command.  Coordination may be conducted by emailing the Observation to the 
Unified Combatant Command Joint Lessons Learned Information System Administrator or by 
entering the Observation on the Unified Combatant Command Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System site. 
8.6.3.  Major Commands not a component of a Unified Combatant Command forward 
Observations requiring Joint, Department of Defense Agency, or Unified Combatant 
Command coordination to the Headquarters United States Air Force T-1 or the appropriate 
Major Command/Component Numbered Air Force.  The Headquarters United States Air Force 
T-1 Administrator notifies the responsible action officer/subject matter expert who needs to 
review and validate the Observation with their joint, agency, or Unified Combatant Command 
point of contact and assume responsibility for tracking the Observation through to Resolution. 
8.6.4.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System website status updates are the responsibility 
of the Air Force Lessons Learned action officer.  Updates are available upon request through 
the responsible Air Force Lessons Learned action officer. 
8.7.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration Review Board. 
8.7.1.  The Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration Review Board 
should be scheduled to allow sufficient time to address Air Force requirements prior to the 
Joint Configuration Review Board. 
8.7.2.  The Board should review action items from the previous Board, configuration issues, 
modifications, and business rules.  Each T-1 Administrator has an opportunity to provide input 
during the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration Review Board. 
8.7.3.  The Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration Review Board 
is chaired by the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program Manager.  T-
1 Administrators and the Recorder are voting members of the Configuration Review Board.  
Members of the Joint Staff/J7 have a standing invitation to attend.  This courtesy is also 
extended to the other members of the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
and lessons learned community. 
8.7.4.  Each T-1 Administrator is responsible to collect input(s) from their respective T-2s for 
the Air Force Configuration Review Board prior to the conference.  The purpose is to provide 
an opportunity for Administrators to speak/vote for the actions that affect their Tier.  The T-2 
Command Lesson Managers are not voting members of the Air Force Configuration Review 
Board.  In the event of a tie during the voting process, the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System Program Manager will cast the deciding vote. 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
23 
8.7.5.  All Air Force Configuration Review Board items that impact the other Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System master sites need to go before the Joint Staff/J7 and the Joint 
Lessons Learned Conference Configuration Review Board for review and approval.  The Air 
Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program Manager represents the Air Force 
during the Joint Lessons Learned Conference on all Air Force Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System related issues.  Results from the Joint Lessons Learned Conference are to 
be shared and reviewed by the Joint Lessons Learned Information System lessons learned 
community. 
8.8.  Network Security. 
8.8.1.  Joint Staff/J7 policy and guidance for the NIPRNet Joint Lessons Learned Information 
System only allows access to Australia, Canada, Great Britain, and United States personnel 
and Foreign Exchange Officers/Liaison Officers sponsored and/or assigned to Department of 
Defense organizations. United States Government has a National Disclosure Policy for 
SIPRNet. The following information is in accordance with Joint Staff/J7 guidance pending 
release of formal Department of Defense guidance for Air Force Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System: 
8.8.1.1.  Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System information is considered 
For Official Use Only.  If there is a requirement to convert/migrate For Official Use Only 
data to a Department of Defense-wide system of Controlled Unclassified Information, the 
For Official Use Only marking of Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
products helps prevent commercial access, but allow access to those with valid 
requirements and registration. 
8.8.1.2.  Department of Defense Instruction 8110.01, Mission Partner Environment (MPE) 
Information Sharing Capability Implementation for the DoD, implements policy and 
designates the Multination Information Sharing Combined Enterprise Regional 
Information Exchange System as the Department of Defense standard for multinational 
information sharing networks using the Department of Defense Information Network. 
8.8.2.  Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States personnel assigned to or sponsored 
by a Department of Defense organization and issued a Common Access Card permitting access 
to the Department of Defense computer network/system are authorized access to the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System.  These members are authorized to register in Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System as members of their assigned and sponsoring Department 
of Defense organization. 
8.8.2.1.  Registration is validated and controlled through the organization’s security office 
and approved by the Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program 
Manager. 
8.8.2.2.  Australia, Canada, Great Britain and United States personnel who are validated 
and authorized access to the United States Department of Defense SIPRNet are authorized 
access to the Joint Lessons Learned Information System on SIPRNet (Note:  Australia, 
Canada, Great Britain and United States personnel who have been granted access to United 
States Department of Defense SIPRNet need to have full access to SIPRNet Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System.] 
24 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
8.8.3.  Air Force Lessons Learned guidance concerning loading, access, and release of Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System information for both sites is in accordance with Air Force 
and Joint Staff Network Security Guidance. SIPRNet:  https://www.jllis.smil.mil and 
NIPRNet:  https://www.jllis.mil.  For any questions or concerns please contact the Joint 
Lessons 
Learned 
Information 
System 
Program 
Manager, 
LeMayCenter.AFLL.JLLISAdm@us.af.mil. 
8.9.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System T-1 Administrators and T-2 Command 
Lesson Managers  
8.9.1.  T-1 Administrators will: 
8.9.1.1.  Be appointed by the Major Command Lessons Learned Director and the names 
sent forward to the Air Force Lessons Learned Joint Lessons Learned Information System 
Program Manager. 
8.9.1.2.  Forward all Joint Lessons Learned Information System issues (e.g., permission 
upgrade requests and system malfunctions, and modification recommendations) to the Air 
Force Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program Manager for coordination, 
review, and Resolution. 
8.9.1.3.  Have one vote on the Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration 
Review Board. 
8.9.1.4.  Establish, and certify T-2 Managers/Subject Matter Experts/Command Lesson 
Managers. 
8.9.1.5.  Coordinate Validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by Collection 
teams, T-2 Lesson Managers or other authorized users. 
8.9.1.6.  Approve T-2 or lower sites under their responsibility for access to Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System. 
8.9.1.7.  Provide Joint Lessons Learned Information System and Collection guidance for 
all T-2 Command Lessons Managers assigned within the Headquarters United States Air 
Force/Major Command T-1 and T-2. 
8.9.1.8.  Act as the single point of contact within the command for Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System issues (registration, system errors, and configuration requests). 
8.9.1.9.  At a minimum, conduct Tier maintenance as needed to maintain currency.  
Guidelines for Observation and Tier maintenance should be developed locally based on the 
needs of the command and mission requirements. 
8.9.2.  T-2 Command Lessons Manager/Administrators will (e.g., Air Force Reserve 
Command has T-2 Administrators). 
8.9.2.1.  Consist of a primary and alternate to be appointed by the Commander/Director to 
manage the T-2. 
8.9.2.2.  Be identified by their Major Command T-1 Administrator to the Air Force 
Lessons Learned Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program Manager. 
8.9.2.3.  Not vote on the Joint Lessons Learned Information System Configuration Review 
Board. 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
25 
8.9.2.4.  Coordinate Validation of Observations submitted to their Tier by Collection teams 
or other authorized users. 
8.9.2.5.  Forward all Joint Lessons Learned Information System issues (e.g., issues and 
permissions) to their T-1 Administrator for coordination, review and Resolution. 
8.9.2.6.  Act as the single point of contact within the command for Joint Lessons Learned 
Information System issues (i.e., registration, system errors, and configuration requests). 
8.9.3.  T-3 Organization Lessons Manager will: 
8.9.3.1.  Consist of a primary and alternate to be appointed by the Commander/Director to 
manage the T-3. (T-3) 
8.9.3.2.  Be identified by their T-2 Command Lessons Manager/Administrator to the Major 
Command Joint Lessons Learned Information System Program Manager.  (T-3) 
8.9.3.3.  Coordinate Validation of Observations submitted or transferred to their Tier by 
Joint Lessons Learned Information System users. (T-3) 
8.9.3.4.  Forward Joint Lessons Learned Information System issues to their T-2 Command 
Lessons Manager/Administrator for coordination, review, and Resolution.  (T-3) 
8.10.  Tracking Database Management.  Lessons learned organizations will use the Joint 
Lessons Learned Information System to archive and track their Observations and Lessons 
Identified action items.  Exception:  organizations with a requirement to track lessons on coalition 
partner networks may use other methods as required.  Organizations using stand-alone methods 
should transfer lessons with broader Air Force equity to the Joint Lessons Learned Information 
System to ensure they are accessible by the widest possible Air Force and Department of Defense 
audience.  (T-3) 
8.11.  Joint Lessons Learned Information System Orientation  
8.11.1.  The LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force Lessons Learned is responsible for 
oversight of the Joint Lessons Learned Information System train-the-trainer orientation.  The 
Air Force Joint Lessons Learned Information Systems Program Manager is available to 
provide formal Joint Lessons Learned Information System orientation classes for T-1 
Administrators, T-2 Command Lessons Managers/Administrators, and personnel assigned to 
Headquarters United States Air Force.  Each lessons learned office will establish guidelines 
for the Joint Lessons Learned Information System currency and a method to track orientation 
completion. (T-3) 
8.11.2.  T-1 Administrators Joint Lessons Learned Information System responsibilities include 
the orientation of newly assigned T-2 Command Lessons Managers/Administrators, 
establishing a T-1 orientation program for use throughout the command, as well as conducting 
classroom and over-the-shoulder orientation sessions locally through recurring sessions or just-
in-time as needed. 
8.11.3.  T-2 Command Lessons Managers/Administrators will provide orientation for 
Numbered Air Force and lower echelon personnel.  If the T-1 has no T-2 Lesson Managers 
assigned, overall orientation for Numbered Air Force and/or lower echelon personnel remains 
the responsibility of the T-1 Administrator. 
8.11.4.  T-1/2 orientation needs to: 
26 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
8.11.4.1.  Tier coordinating and tracking Observations through the Air Force Lessons 
Learned Process. 
8.11.4.2.  Include tracking a lesson to Resolution and basic authorized Joint Lessons 
Learned Information System user orientation. 
8.11.4.3.  Include the command’s local process based on command guidance through a 
tutorial or a locally developed orientation course. 
8.11.4.4.  Major Command lessons learned offices will provide their personnel basic 
authorized Joint Lessons Learned Information System user orientation, T-1 Administrator 
orientation for newly assigned Administrator/Managers, and T-2 Command Lessons 
Managers/Administrator orientation. 
8.11.5.  Basic Authorized Joint Lessons Learned Information System User Orientation is 
posted on the Joint Lessons Learned Information System home page.  This orientation is for 
new Joint Lessons Learned Information System users who will intend to use the system on a 
recurring basis for research, submitting Observations, after action reports, etc.  Basic user 
orientation information can also be obtained by the LeMay Center Directorate of Air Force 
Lessons Learned, T-1 Administrator/Manager, or T-2 Administrators/Managers. 
 
MARK D. KELLY, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
27 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDI 8110.01, Mission Partner Environment (MPE) Information Sharing Capability 
Implementation for the DoD, 25 November, 2014 
CJCSI 3150.25G, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 31 January 2018 
AFPD 10-13, Air Force Doctrine and Lessons Learned, 17 January 2019    
AFPD 90-16, Studies, Analyses, and Assessments, 26 July 2018 
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Prescribed Forms 
AF Form 4329, Observation or Lesson Learned (Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router 
Network [NIPRNet]), 24 March 2004 
AF Form 4330, After Action Summary Report (Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network 
[NIPRNet]), 7 January 2004 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 
Terms 
Active—A status of a Lesson Identified indicating that the lesson is currently being worked to 
Resolution by a Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, 
Facilities, and Policy Office of Primary Responsibility. 
After Action Report—The after action report is a consolidated report that includes an executive 
summary covering the event information (e.g., dates, locations, and participants) and Observations.  
Observations to be documented are those which result in improvements in military operations.  
After action report Observations should describe how the mission could be/was improved, 
potential risks to mission degradation and how to mitigate those risks. 
Air Force Lessons Learned Process—The Air Force Lessons Learned Program’s four distinct 
components of Collection, Validation, Dissemination and Resolution that allows the assessment 
of observations from operations, activities, and exercises as potential lessons learned. 
Air Force Lessons Learned Program—The Air Force Lessons Learned Program is a knowledge 
management program that supports organizational learning from experience gained in operations, 
training events, exercises, experiments, and other activities. 
 
 
28 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
Collection—Collection is a method by which Observations enter the Air Force Lessons Learned 
Process and involves formal and informal methods.  Observations can be “pulled” into the process 
through formal Collection efforts or they can be “pushed” into the process by organizations, units 
and individual Airmen.  In a learning culture, every Airman contributes to the Air Force Lessons 
Learned Process. 
Dissemination—Dissemination is the distribution of Lessons Identified to organizations for 
action, along with making lessons available for wider use.  The goal of Dissemination is to get 
lessons to decision makers when needed to make more informed decisions. 
Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education, Personnel, Facilities, 
and Policy—- Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education, Personnel, 
Facilities, and Policy are factors that implement senior leader guidance and lead to the 
development and employment of joint force capabilities. 
Joint Lessons Learned Information System—Joint Lessons Learned Information System is the 
system of record for the Air Force Lessons Learned process and may be used by any Airman. The 
Joint Lessons Learned Information System is the central repository for Observations, Lessons 
Identified, after action reports, and other lessons learned reports. 
Lesson Identified—A validated Observation that represents a matter (e.g., capability, concept, 
process, procedure) to be sustained, improved or developed.  A Lesson Identified contains a better 
way to accomplish a mission or task for learning by a broader organization. 
Lesson Learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the strategic, 
operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an individual or an 
organization. 
Observation—An input from any source into the Air Force Lessons Learned Process.  
Observations contain information regarding specific events, activities, circumstances or outcomes 
and should include sufficient factual and contextual information to support their Validation. 
Resolution—Process to ensure Lessons Identified are staffed for action.  Resolution actions should 
be captured in the Joint Lessons Learned Information System or appropriate documents and 
tracked to closure. 
System of Record—An information storage system (commonly implemented on a computer 
system), which is the authoritative data source for a given data element or piece of information.  
The need to identify systems of record can become acute in organizations where management 
information systems have been built by taking output data from multiple source systems, re-
processing this data, and then re-presenting the result for a new business use.  Where the integrity 
of the data is vital, a data element must either be linked to, or extracted directly from its system of 
record.  The integrity and validity of any data set is open to question when there is no traceable 
connection with a known System of Record. 
Validation—Process to ensure an Observation is reviewed by staff functionals and/or operational 
experts to confirm an Observation contains an identifiable lesson to be processed through the Air 
Force Lessons Learned Process. 
 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
29 
Attachment 2 
AIR FORCE LESSONS LEARNED GENERAL OFFICER STEERING GROUP 
A2.1.  Purpose.    The General Officer Steering Group is a forum for senior leaders to discuss 
operational and strategic level lessons, and to shape Air Force Lessons Learned Program activities. 
A2.2.  Concept.    Air Force Lessons Learned sponsors an Air Force Chief of Staff (or designated 
representative) annual meeting attended by Headquarters United States Air Force senior leaders, 
Major Command Deputy Commanders, Air University Commander, LeMay Center Commander, 
and other invited senior leaders.  This meeting provides a means for senior leaders to: 
A2.2.1.  Enhance the understanding of lessons learned from the conduct of operations, 
exercises, and contingencies. 
A2.2.2.  Inform key process owners of important lessons learned information that can be used 
for their decisions. 
A2.2.3.  Review current Chief of Staff of the Air Force lessons learned focus areas, status of 
any associated lessons, and proposed topics for future Chief of Staff of the Air Force lessons 
learned focus areas. 
A2.2.4.  Recommend and approved transfer of “Joint” lessons identified to Joint Staff J-7 via 
the JS/J-7 Joint Lesson Memorandum Process as outlined in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff Instruction 3150.25G, Joint Lessons Learned Program. 
A2.3.  Membership: 
A2.3.1.  Chair:  Air Force Vice Chief of Staff. 
A2.3.2.  Co-chair:  Deputy Chief of Staff of Operations (AF/A3). 
A2.3.3.  Secretariat:  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisitions) (SAF/AQ), Deputy 
Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN), Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for 
International Affairs (SAF/AI), Inspector General of the Air Force (SAF/IG), Legislative 
Liaison, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/LL), Deputy Under Secretary of the Air 
Force for Space (SAF/SP). 
A2.3.4.  Air Staff: Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1), 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6), Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3), Deputy Chief of Staff 
for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4), Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy, 
Integration, and Requirements (AF/A5 and AF/A8), Director for Studies, Analyses and 
Assessments (AF/A9), Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
(AF/A10), Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC), Air Force Historian (AF/HO), The Judge Advocate 
General (AF/JA), Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE), the Surgeon General of the Air Force 
(AF/SG). 
A2.3.5.  Major Command Deputy Commanders, Director of the National Guard Bureau, 
Component Numbered Air Forces Commanders. 
A2.3.6.  Air University Commander, LeMay Center Commander, United States Air Force 
Warfare Center Commander, United States Air Force Expeditionary Center Commander. 
30 
AFI10-1302  30 JULY 2019 
A2.3.7.  Air Force District of Washington Deputy Commander. 
A2.3.8.  Others as necessary by the meeting agenda. 
A2.4.  Roles and Responsibilities: 
A2.4.1.  Air Force Vice Chief of Staff chairs the meeting. 
A2.4.2.  Air Force Lessons Learned Directorate develops the agenda and content for approval. 
A2.4.3.  General Officer Steering Group members discuss lessons learned and associated 
topics that enable their functional areas to better organize, training, and equip the Air Force. 
A2.4.4.  Selected members and guests provide highlights of their lessons learned activities. 
A2.4.5.  Air Force Lessons Learned Directorate serves as General Officer Steering Group 
secretariat to organize meetings and accomplish follow-on tasks. 
A2.5.  Timing and Venue: 
A2.5.1.  Annual (notionally in March). 
A2.5.1.1.  Headquarters United States Air Force (Secure video teleconference for members 
outside National Capitol Region). 
A2.5.2.  CORONA Fall (typically in September or October). 
A2.5.2.1.  LeMay Center Doctrine/Lessons Learned Summit. 
A2.5.2.2.  Presentation of lessons learned issues rising to level requiring address by four-
star panel. 
A2.6.  Air Force Stakeholder General Officer Steering Group Role: 
A2.6.1.  Stakeholders General Officer Steering Groups are formed as advocacy groups related 
to specific reports or threads designated under Air Force Focus Areas. 
A2.6.2.  Stakeholder General Officer Steering Group members will advise Collection team 
members on content of specific Collections and preview designated reports at the General 
Officer/Senior Executive Services level prior to more general distribution. 
A2.6.3.  Stakeholder General Officer Steering Group members will validate Observations, 
advocate for issue Resolution, implement solutions, and incorporate lessons within their 
command’s or area of functional responsibility. 
 
 
