BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1801 
25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
Operations 
FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL 
AIRCRAFT LANDINGS AT UNITED 
STATES AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: HAF/A3OJ 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI10-1801, 30 August 2018 
Certified by: HQ AF/A3O  
(Brig Gen B. Chance Saltzman) 
Pages: 22 
 
 
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-18, Foreign Governmental Aircraft Use 
of United States Air Force Airfields.  It provides guidance and procedures for coordinating, 
approving, and supporting foreign governmental aircraft landings at United States Air Force 
(USAF) installations (Active, Guard and Reserve), USAF support facilities at foreign airfields and 
USAF ramps at civil airports hosting Air National Guard (ANG), and United States Air Force 
Reserve (USAFR) units.  Compliance with this instruction is mandatory and applies to all military 
and civilian Air Force personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, and 
other individuals or organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the 
Department of the Air Force.  This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of 
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an 
appropriate Privacy Act Statement.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, 
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) 
in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Refer recommended 
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF 
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field 
through the appropriate functional chain of command.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level 
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following 
the compliance statement.  See Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms 
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests 
2 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or 
alternately, to the Publication Office of Primary Responsibility for non-tiered compliance items. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This instruction has been significantly revised and should be reviewed in its entirety.  This revision 
includes updated guidelines regarding aircraft supplies and services of foreign military or other 
state aircraft as outlined in Title 10 United States Code, Subtitle D, Part IV, Chapter 939, § 9626.  
Additionally, this update addresses protection levels for foreign aircraft, procedures for handling 
of foreign Very Important Persons, Distinguished Visitors, and dignitaries and procedures for 
United States Customs and Border Protection regarding foreign aircraft and personnel Point of 
Entry into United States Air Force installations.  Additionally, approval authorities for North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization aircraft landings were updated. 
 
Chapter 1— INTRODUCTION 
 
4 
1.1. 
 Scope.   ....................................................................................................................  
4 
Chapter 2— ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
5 
2.1. 
 The Civil/Military Aviation Integration Division (AF/A3OJ).  ..............................  
5 
2.2. 
 The installation commander or designated representative.  ....................................  
5 
2.3. 
 Decision Authority ..................................................................................................  
6 
Chapter 3— CONDITIONS FOR USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS 
AND SUPPORT FACILITIES 
 
8 
3.1. 
 United States Air Force Airfields and Support Facilities Conditions.   ..................  
8 
Chapter 4— REQUEST PROCEDURES 
 
9 
4.1. 
 Authorization procedures.   .....................................................................................  
9 
4.2. 
 Processing a Request for Landing Authorization.   ................................................  
10 
Chapter 5— UNAUTHORIZED LANDINGS 
 
11 
5.1. 
 Unauthorized Landing Procedures. .........................................................................  
11 
5.2. 
 Emergency Landings.   ...........................................................................................  
11 
5.3. 
 Inadvertent Landings.   ...........................................................................................  
12 
5.4. 
 Intentional Unauthorized Landings.   ......................................................................  
12 
5.5. 
 Detaining an Aircraft.   ...........................................................................................  
12 
Chapter 6— SUPPORT TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL AIRCRAFT 
 
14 
6.1. 
 Services. ..................................................................................................................  
14 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
3 
6.2. 
 Crew Documentation. .............................................................................................  
14 
6.3. 
 Customs and Border Protection. .............................................................................  
14 
6.4. 
 Hazardous Material. ................................................................................................  
15 
6.5. 
 Liaison Officer.   .....................................................................................................  
15 
6.6. 
 Aircraft Support. .....................................................................................................  
15 
6.7. 
 Prior Permission Required (PPR). ..........................................................................  
15 
6.8. 
 Airfield Use Limitation. ..........................................................................................  
16 
6.9. 
 Aircrew Review of Applicable Publications.   ........................................................  
16 
Chapter 7— FEES AND CHARGES 
 
17 
7.1. 
 Routine Airport Services.  ......................................................................................  
17 
7.2. 
 Reimbursable Charges.   .........................................................................................  
17 
7.3. 
 For Base Finance Only ...........................................................................................  
18 
Chapter 8— RANK/HONOR CODES 
 
19 
8.1. 
 Distinguished Visitors, Foreign Dignitaries and Very Important Persons. .............  
19 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
20 
Attachment 2— HAZARDOUS CLASSIFICATION CODES 
 
22 
 
 
 
4 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
Chapter 1 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1.  Scope.  United States Air Force airfields are available for use by foreign governmental 
aircraft so far as such use is consistent with the foreign aircraft’s country clearance (if within the 
U.S., as provided by the Department of State, or foreign sovereign if abroad), does not interfere 
with military operations and does not jeopardize the military utility of the installation.  Access will 
be granted on an equitable basis.  United States Air Force requirements will take precedence over 
authorized foreign governmental aircraft use.  Exceptions to this instruction are not authorized 
without prior approval from Headquarters United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Operations (AF/A3). 
 
 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
5 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  The Civil/Military Aviation Integration Division (AF/A3OJ). 
2.1.1.  Determines whether foreign governmental aircraft use of United States Air Force 
airfields or United States Air Force support facilities at foreign airfields or United States Air 
Force ramps at civil airports hosting Air National Guard and United States Air Force Reserve 
units is compatible with current and planned military activities. 
2.1.2.  Authorizes foreign governmental aircraft use of United States Air Force airfields and 
support facilities only in support of official state-sponsored activity. 
2.1.3.  Acts as clearing authority for foreign governmental aircraft use of United States Air 
Force airfields and support facilities, subject to the laws and regulations of the United States, 
and to applicable international agreements with the country in which the United States Air 
Force installation or support facility is located. 
2.1.4.  Reserves the right to suspend any operation that is inconsistent with United States 
national defense interests or deemed not in the best interests of the United States Air Force. 
2.1.5.  Terminates authority to use a United States Air Force airfield or support facility if the 
user lands for other than the approved purpose or is otherwise in violation of this instruction. 
2.2.  The installation commander or designated representative.  
2.2.1.  Exercises administrative and security control over the aircraft, crew and passengers 
while on the installation.  (T-1) 
2.2.2.  If a Regular Air Force, Guard or Reserve airfield is the initial point of entry into the 
United States the installation’s Airfield Management Operations will notify Security Forces to 
ensure that arriving foreign governmental personnel do not debark the foreign aircraft prior to 
Customs and Border Protection arrival and processing. 
2.2.3.  Ensures physical protection of aircraft will be modeled after protection requirements 
identified in Air Force Instruction 31-101, Integrated Defense. 
2.2.4.  Requires foreign governmental users to delay, reschedule, or reroute aircraft arrivals or 
departures to preclude interference with military activities. 
2.2.5.  Cooperates with customs, immigration, health, agriculture and other public authorities 
in connection with foreign governmental aircraft arrival and departure. 
2.2.6.  Ensures foreign governmental operators have an approved Aircraft Landing 
Authorization Number, before the foreign governmental operator can operate at United States 
Air Force airfields, except for emergency use. 
2.2.7.  Ensures that the aircraft to be operated at the United States Air Force airfield does not 
exceed the pavement load-bearing capacity of the runway. 
2.2.8.  Ensures that aircraft to be operated at United States Air Force airfields are equipped 
with an operating two-way radio capable of communicating with air traffic control. 
6 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
2.2.9.  Provides final approval for landing at least 24 hours prior to arrival.  This is normally 
delegated down to Airfield Management Operations. 
2.2.10.  Ensures the landing clearance granted by an air traffic control facility is not a substitute 
for the approved Aircraft Landing Authorization Number. 
2.2.11.  Ensures the foreign governmental operator obtains required diplomatic and overflight 
clearances from the Department of State and the Host Government of any United States Air 
Force installation or support facility located on foreign soil.  Department of State clearances 
must be obtained via “Diplomatic Aircraft Clearance Procedures for Foreign State Aircraft To 
Operate 
in 
United 
States 
National 
Airspace” 
website 
https://www.state.gov/t/pm/iso/c56895.htm. 
2.2.12.  Ensures foreign governmental operators pay applicable costs and fees. 
2.2.13.  Ensures foreign governmental operators file a flight plan for each leg of the flight in 
accordance with International Civil Aviation Organization or Federal Aviation Administration 
procedures (FAA). 
2.3.  Decision Authority  .  The authority to grant foreign governmental aircraft use of United 
States Air Force airfields is vested in: 
2.3.1.  Headquarters United States Air Force, Military and Civilian Aviation Integration 
Division (AF/A3OJ).  AF/A3OJ may act on any request for foreign governmental aircraft use 
of a United States Air Force airfield or support facility.  Decision authority will not be 
delegated below AF/A3OJ except as designated in paragraphs 2.3.2. through 2.3.5. 
2.3.2.  The Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe or a designated representative.  
The Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe or a designated representative may 
approve use of United States Air Force installations within his/her designated area of 
responsibility by North Atlantic Treaty Organization aircraft or governmental aircraft from any 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization country. 
2.3.3.  United States Air Force Installation Commanders for United States Air Force 
Installations at United States Territories, Commonwealths, and Possessions.  Installation 
commanders or designated representatives for United States Air Force installations at United 
States Territories, Commonwealths, and Possessions may approve use of the airfield under 
his/her designated area of responsibility by foreign governmental aircraft. 
2.3.3.1.  United States Territories are:  American Samoa, Guam and United States Virgin 
Islands. 
2.3.3.2.  United States Commonwealths are: Puerto Rico, Northern Mariana Islands. 
2.3.3.3.  United States Possessions are: Wake Island, Midway Island, Palmyra Island, 
Howland Island, Kingman Reef, Jarvis Island and Baker Island. 
2.3.4.  United States Air Force Installation Commanders for United States Air Force 
Installations on Foreign Soil.  Installation commanders or designated representatives for 
United States Air Force installations on foreign soil may approve use of the airfield under 
his/her designated area of responsibility by governmental aircraft from the Host Nation.  All 
other foreign governmental aircraft landing on United States Air Force Installation on foreign 
soil must have an approved Aircraft Landing Authorization Number to land.  (T-1) 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
7 
2.3.5.  United States Air Force Installation Commanders for United States Air Force 
Installations in the United States.  Installation commanders or designated representatives for 
United States Air Force installations in the United States may approve use of the airfield under 
his/her designated area of responsibility by governmental aircraft from Canada except: 
2.3.5.1.  Groups consisting of more than three medium or heavy aircraft or six small 
aircraft. 
2.3.5.2.  Aircraft carrying munitions or other Hazardous Material/Dangerous Goods. 
2.3.5.3.  Aircraft for which the adequacy of the ground facilities of the United States Air 
Force installation is in doubt. 
2.3.5.4.  Aircraft involved in  political activities such as reconnaissance, combat, and other 
military operations flights not authorized by United States National Command Authority, 
flights en-route to politically sensitive destinations. 
2.3.5.5.  Aircraft carrying foreign heads of state or Minister/Secretary level officials (Very 
Important Persons or Distinguished Visitors). 
 
 
8 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
Chapter 3 
CONDITIONS FOR USE OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS AND 
SUPPORT FACILITIES 
3.1.  United States Air Force Airfields and Support Facilities Conditions.  The United States 
Air Force authorizes use of its airfields and support facilities for a specific purpose by a specific 
foreign government.  The authorization cannot be transferred and does not extend to use for other 
purposes.  An approved Aircraft Landing Authorization Number does not obligate the United 
States Air Force to provide supplies, equipment, or facilities other than the landing, taxiing, and 
parking areas and crew transportation (normally base taxi service) to and from quarters.  The 
aircraft crew and passengers are only authorized activities at the installation directly related to the 
purpose for which use is granted.  All foreign governmental users are expected to submit their 
request at least three (3) business days before intended use and, except for use as a weather 
alternate or emergency landing site, must contact the appropriate installation commander or 
designated representative at least 24 hours before arrival.  Failure to comply with either time limit 
may be used as justification to deny landing rights.  The foreign governmental aircraft Officer-In-
Charge/Pilot-In-Command should not takeoff from foreign soil bound for an airfield for which 
prior permissions is required if an approved Aircraft Landing Authorization Number and Prior 
Permission Required has not been issued.  If the foreign governmental aircraft decides to takeoff 
without an approved Aircraft Landing Authorization Number, bound for an airfield for which prior 
permission is required, the aircraft will be directed to land at the nearest civil airport.  The only 
exception to this policy would be for weather alternate or emergency landings. 
 
 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
9 
Chapter 4 
REQUEST PROCEDURES 
4.1.  Authorization procedures.  All foreign governmental aircraft must have authorization 
before using United States Air Force installations.  The foreign government must formally request 
permission for its aircraft to land at United States Air Force installations. 
4.1.1.  Except as indicated in paragraphs 2.3.2 through 2.3.5, requests are submitted in 
writing, normally through the foreign government's air attaché in Washington DC, to 
AF/A3OJ, Military/Civilian Aviation Integration Division, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, , 
Washington DC 20330-1480, at least three (3) business days prior to the beginning of the flight. 
4.1.2.  Permission to land at United States Air Force installations in the United States or foreign 
countries does not constitute nor take the place of diplomatic clearance requirements.  The 
foreign government is responsible for submitting a request to the Department of State for 
diplomatic clearance of overflight and landing in the United States as well as to each foreign 
country which will be overflown or in which a landing is to be made. 
4.1.3.  Under special circumstances, AF/A3OJ may grant a “continuous” Aircraft Landing 
Authorization Number memo for foreign governmental aircraft on long term deployments to 
United States Air Force installations, normally to participate in ongoing United States military 
sponsored exercises such as RED FLAG and GREEN FLAG; participation in United States 
weapons system evaluations such as COMBAT ARCHER, COMBAT HAMMER, etc., and 
participation in joint exercises such as MAPLE FLAG, and deployments to other Continental 
United States locations for informal events such as Dissimilar Air Combat Training. 
4.1.4.  A sponsoring United States Air Force organization/commander will normally be 
assigned Operational Control over the long term deployment of foreign governmental aircraft 
or the foreign governmental unit at the United States Air Force installation. The sponsoring 
United States organization/commander will control all flight operations and confer with the 
foreign government senior ranking officer on matters concerning flight operations and 
deployment sponsorship. 
4.1.5.  The long term deployment inclusive dates must be identified on the Department of 
State’s diplomatic clearance application. 
4.1.6.  The “continuous” Aircraft Landing Authorization Number memo is authorization for 
the initial arrival and final departure of the foreign governmental aircraft into and out of the 
United States installation and all other local flying during the course of the deployment will 
follow the sponsoring unit’s normal flight planning procedures. 
4.1.7.  For such long term deployments, an agreement between the United States Government 
and foreign government is required, normally in the form of a Letter of Offer and Acceptance, 
Memorandum of Understanding or Memorandum of Agreement.  The agreement outlines the 
working relationship between the United States sponsoring organization or commander and 
the foreign governmental unit. 
 
 
10 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
4.1.8.  The “continuous” Aircraft Landing Authorization Number memo must identify all 
outlying Regular Air Force, Guard, or Reserve installations the foreign governmental aircraft 
will be visiting during their long term deployment.  Flights outside of the sponsoring unit’s 
catchment area to other United States Air Force installations will follow the sponsoring unit’s 
normal flight planning procedures as prescribed for United States Air Force aircraft. 
4.2.  Processing a Request for Landing Authorization.   
4.2.1.  When a request is received the installation commander will determine the availability 
of the installation and its ability to accommodate the request.  The installation commander will 
use the Department of State’s diplomatic clearance application and the Air Force Aircraft 
Authorization Landing Number to determine that the foreign government has a valid 
requirement to use United States Air Force facilities.  Approval will be granted only if there 
will be no compromise of operations, security, readiness, safety, environment, and quality of 
life.  An Aircraft Landing Authorization Number will be assigned to each request approved for 
landing of foreign governmental aircraft.  The approving authority will provide appropriate 
billing instructions and flight information in a landing authorization message. 
4.2.2.  Foreign Visit Requests are not handled or processed as part of the Aircraft Landing 
Authorization Number issuing procedures, but are normally handled by the Foreign Disclosure 
Officer through separate channels.  If foreign governmental crew and passengers are military 
members travelling on official orders they do not require a Foreign Visit Request as long as 
the crew and Passenger manifest has been sent as prescribed in paragraphs 6.2.1. and 6.2.2. 
below, and there are no request or need for briefings or exchange of United States information. 
 
 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
11 
Chapter 5 
UNAUTHORIZED LANDINGS 
5.1.  Unauthorized Landing Procedures. 
5.1.1.  The installation commander or designated representative will identify an unauthorized 
landing involving foreign governmental aircraft as either an emergency landing, an inadvertent 
landing, or an intentional unauthorized landing as outlined in Code of Federal Regulation, Title 
32, Subtitle A, Chapter VII, Subchapter F, Part 855, Subpart B,  §855.14, Unauthorized 
Landings.  An unauthorized landing may be designated as inadvertent or intentional whether 
or not the operator has knowledge of the provisions of this instruction and whether or not the 
operator has filed a flight plan identifying the installation as a destination.  On all unauthorized 
landings the aircraft should be limited to minimum ground time.  The installation commander 
or designated representative shall also: 
5.1.1.1.  Brief the operator on the requirements of AFI 10-1801.  (T-1) 
5.1.1.2.  Advise the operator that the incident will be reported to the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the operator's government.  (T-1) 
5.1.1.3.  Direct the operator to depart the installation as soon as possible, and provide an 
estimated departure time.  (T-1) 
5.1.1.4.  In the United States or its possessions, notify the nearest Federal Aviation 
Administration Flight Standards District Office within three (3) business days of the 
unauthorized landing.  (T-1) 
5.1.1.5.  Request the appropriate United States Defense Attachés Office in the country of 
aircraft origin to notify the government of the incident within three (3) business days of the 
unauthorized landing.  (T-1) 
5.1.1.6.  Prepare  National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) ARC 277B, 
General Form to report the unauthorized landing and submit it to AF/A3OJ within fifteen 
(15) business days of the unauthorized landing incident.  (T-1) 
5.2.  Emergency Landings.   
5.2.1.  Any aircraft operator who experiences an inflight emergency may land at any United 
States Air Force installation without prior authorization.  An inflight emergency is defined as 
a situation which makes continued flight hazardous. 
5.2.2.  The United States Air Force will use any method or means to clear an aircraft or 
wreckage from the runway to preclude interference with essential military operations.  
Removal efforts should minimize damage to the aircraft and wreckage; however, military or 
other operational considerations are overriding. 
5.2.3.  A user making an emergency landing pays all costs for labor, material, parts, use of 
equipment, tools, etc., for activities supporting the emergency landing such as (T-1): 
5.2.3.1.  Spreading foam on the runway. 
5.2.3.2.  Damage to runway, lighting and navigation aids. 
5.2.3.3.  Rescue, crash, and fire control services. 
12 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
5.2.3.4.  Movement and storage of aircraft. 
5.2.3.5.  Maintenance and repair of aircraft. 
5.2.3.6.  Fuel or oil provided. 
5.2.4.  The installation commander or designated representative is responsible for (T-1): 
5.2.4.1.  Documenting the total cost incurred by the United States Government. 
5.2.4.2.  Collecting payment of all charges incurred or arrange billing for charges. 
5.2.4.3.  Prepare an FAA Accident/Incident Report, FAA Form 8020-23 if there are no 
survivors to prepare the FAA Form 8020-23. 
5.3.  Inadvertent Landings.  The installation commander may determine a landing to be 
inadvertent if the aircraft operator landed due to flight disorientation or mistook the United States 
Air Force installation for a civil airport. 
5.4.  Intentional Unauthorized Landings.  The installation commander may determine a landing 
to be intentional when substantial evidence demonstrates that the pilot of the foreign governmental 
aircraft knew the landing was unauthorized or the aircraft landed without an approved Aircraft 
Landing Authorization Number.  In addition, the landing may be determined to be unauthorized 
but intentional even if an approved Aircraft Landing Authorization Number is on file under any of 
the following circumstances: 
5.4.1.  The landing is for an unauthorized purpose, not reflected on the Aircraft Landing 
Authorization Number or Diplomatic Clearance Application Systems application request. 
5.4.2.  The aircraft is a different make/model or tail number than reflected on the Aircraft 
Landing Authorization Number request. 
5.4.3.  The operator did not request or obtain the required final clearance from the installation 
commander or a designated representative at least 24 hours in advance. 
5.4.4.  The pilot did not obtain landing clearance from the air traffic control tower. 
5.4.5.  The operator obtained the Aircraft Landing Authorization Number through fraudulent 
methods. 
5.4.6.  The operator requested permission to land from any United States Air Force authority, 
including the control tower, and was denied. 
5.4.7.  The Officer In-Charge/Pilot In-Command of the foreign governmental aircraft landed 
more than 3-hours prior to the Estimated Time of Arrival or more than 3-hours after the 
Estimated Time of Departure indicated on the Diplomatic Clearance Application System 
diplomatic clearance application. 
5.5.  Detaining an Aircraft.  The pilot, aircrew, and passengers aboard a foreign aircraft that made 
an unauthorized landing will not be detained longer than necessary for identification and obtaining 
information required by this instruction.  They may be permitted to remain in a lounge or waiting 
area on the base for this purpose.  No person will be detained involuntarily without coordination 
from the appropriate Department of Justice United States Attorney, the Major Command, and 
AF/A3OJ.  At no time may the foreign aircraft be boarded by United States personnel without 
specific coordination and authorization from the appropriate Department of Justice United States 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
13 
Attorney, the Major Command, AF/A3OJ, and the foreign embassy unless the installation 
commander or fire chief has determined that an unsafe or emergency condition exist onboard the 
aircraft that would dictate it being boarded by emergency personnel (e.g., aircraft fire, threat to 
personnel safety, etc.).  (T-1)  In the event the Officer In-Charge/Pilot In-Command of the foreign 
governmental aircraft requests immediate assistance to address an aircraft fire, coordination with 
the United States Attorney will not be required, and after-action notification may replace 
coordination with the Major Command, Department of State, and AF/A3OJ, so that AF/A3OJ can 
then work with the Department of State to notify the relevant foreign embassy. 
 
 
14 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
Chapter 6 
SUPPORT TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL AIRCRAFT 
6.1.  Services. 
6.1.1.  The foreign government is responsible for identifying support requirements as part of 
its request for aircraft landing authorization.  The Air Force is under no obligation to provide 
services not indicated in the formal request, not approved by the approving authority, or not 
within the capabilities and priorities of the Air Force installation. 
6.1.2.  Billeting of foreign aircrews is authorized on a space-available basis only.  The crews 
will be instructed to be prepared to stay in off-base lodging.  Installations should provide the 
same level of service they would provide to a United States Air Force aircrew in transit, such 
as base taxi service to quarters. 
6.1.3.  Foreign aircraft crew or freight forwarders are responsible for providing cargo pallets 
and tie down material to facilitate loading. 
6.1.4.  Absent an advanced agreement that provides otherwise, Base Exchange and 
Commissary privileges are the prerogative of the installation commander.  There is no 
obligation to provide such privileges to foreign aircrews. 
6.2.  Crew Documentation. 
6.2.1.  The foreign governmental aircraft operator provides a complete crew and passenger 
manifest (full name, date of birth, passport number, visa number, etc.) to the United States Air 
Force installation for each United States Air Force airfield listed on the official Department of 
State Diplomatic Clearance Application System itinerary.  Crew and passenger manifest 
should be provided at least three (3) business days in advance of the aircraft entering United 
States airspace. 
6.2.2.  Complete crew and passenger manifest (full name, date of birth, passport number, visa 
number, etc.) is provided to the United States Customs and Border Protection office upon first 
point of entry into the United States.  All foreign military aircraft crew and passengers listed 
on the manifest must be screened and cleared by Customs and Border Protection upon first 
point of entry.  The number of names listed on the crew and passenger manifest must match 
the number of crew and passengers given on the Department of State Diplomatic Clearance 
Application System application.  Ensure the crew and passengers physically onboard the 
aircraft upon landing at the United States Air Force airfield matches the names listed on the 
previously sent and coordinated manifest. 
6.3.  Customs and Border Protection. 
6.3.1.  If the foreign aircraft diverts (i.e. In-Flight Emergency, weather divert, etc.) to another 
United States Air Force airfield and that airfield is the first point of entry into the United States 
then Customs and Border Protection must be notified at the divert United States Air Force 
airfield/installation. 
6.3.2.  United States Government agencies may review the online Department of Defense 
Foreign Clearance Guide (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil) to determine Customs and Border 
Protection and contact information. 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
15 
6.4.  Hazardous Material. 
6.4.1.  All hazardous materials or dangerous goods will be correctly listed by description, 
United Nation code, classification and measure/weight on the official Department of State 
Diplomatic Clearance Application System application.  This includes all hazardous 
material/dangerous goods loaded internally or externally on the aircraft and whether the 
hazardous material/dangerous goods is palletized or un-palletized. 
6.4.2.  Classification refers to the Hazard Classification Code which is a hazard classification 
system for classifying explosive materials and explosive components that is recognized 
internationally and is used universally by the Department of Defense, other Department of 
Energy contractors, and the Department of Transportation.  The Hazard Classification Code 
system consists of nine classes of dangerous materials, with explosives designated as Class 1.  
The explosives hazard class is further subdivided into six divisions, which are used for 
segregating ammunition and explosives on the basis of similarity of characteristics, properties, 
and accident effects potential.  See attachment 2 for Hazard Classification Codes. 
6.4.3.  Weight refers to the Net Explosive Weight of the item not the actual physical weight.  
Net Explosive Weight is the actual weight in pounds of explosive mixtures or compounds, 
including the trinitrotoluene equivalent of energetic material that is used in determination of 
explosive limits and explosive quantity data arcs. 
6.5.  Liaison Officer.  Visiting foreign nations will appoint a liaison officer responsible for 
coordination of matters concerning support and services for each visit and for each United States 
Air Force airfield location listed on the Diplomatic Clearance Application System itinerary. 
6.6.  Aircraft Support. 
6.6.1.  Support and services of aircraft, equipment or personnel will be planned in advance 
when possible.  Ordinarily, three (3) business days from the date of planned arrival should 
suffice. 
6.6.2.  Direct coordination with the appropriate airfield management office or installation 
representative for all required support and services (i.e. power carts, air carts, fuel, tow bars, 
etc.) can occur once the Prior Permission Required landing reservation has been issued for 
each United States Air Force airfield on the Diplomatic Clearance Application System 
application itinerary. 
6.7.  Prior Permission Required (PPR). 
6.7.1.  Foreign governmental aircraft operators should not depart for the United States Air 
Force installation airfield without the Prior Permission Required already being issued by the 
United States installation(s) or airfield(s) they are scheduled to visit.  If they do not already 
possess a valid permit from a “Prior Permission Required” location, they should contact their 
foreign embassy air attaché office located in Washington, District of Columbia to inquire about 
the Prior Permission Required status. 
6.7.2.  If a foreign governmental aircraft operator tries to land at a particular United States 
installation or airfield for which prior permission is required that has not already issued a valid 
permit, then the foreign aircraft will be asked to fly to the nearest civil airport.  The only 
exception to this policy will be for In-Flight Emergencies or weather divert situations. 
 
 
16 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
6.8.  Airfield Use Limitation. 
6.8.1.  Provision of support and services will be limited to that which is normally available at 
the United States Air Force airfield/installation concerned and should not limit the United 
States Air Force airfield/installation’s ability to meet its own operational commitments. 
6.8.2.  Foreign governmental aircraft operators should adhere to the official itinerary given on 
the Department of State Diplomatic Clearance Application System application to include take-
off and landing dates and Estimated Time of Arrival and Estimated Time of Departure Zulu 
timing.  Foreign governmental aircraft will not be allowed to remain overnight unless 
specifically authorized by the Department of State Diplomatic Clearance Application System 
approval or the aircraft is broken and cannot be quickly repaired. 
6.9.  Aircrew Review of Applicable Publications.    Foreign governmental aircraft operators 
should review applicable Notice to Airmen and Flight Information Publications just prior to takeoff 
from foreign airfield for each United States Air Force airfield visiting.  Particular attention should 
be given to: 
6.9.1.  Runway and taxiway closures and restrictions due to construction. 
6.9.2.  Runway and taxiway closures and restrictions due to energy conservation periods. 
6.9.3.  Runway and taxiway restrictions due to noise abatement or quiet hour periods. 
6.9.4.  Ordinance restrictions. 
6.9.5.  Hot cargo pad restrictions and parking parameters. 
6.9.6.  Airfield operating hours. 
 
 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
17 
Chapter 7 
FEES AND CHARGES 
7.1.  Routine Airport Services.  
7.1.1.  Routine airport services, as described below, will be provided on a non-reimbursable 
basis for military and state aircraft of foreign countries if there is an agreement with the foreign 
country that provides for reciprocal services (all North Atlantic Treaty Organization aircraft 
are covered under such an agreement), or if such services are provided by Air Force personnel 
and equipment without direct cost to the Air Force.  For foreign countries not covered under a 
specific agreement, any services provided by Air Force personnel or use of equipment which 
results in direct cost to the Air Force will be provided on a reimbursable basis (with no transfer 
of funds) provided similar services are provided to military and other state aircraft of the United 
States.  (T-1) 
7.1.2.  Unless specifically identified as not providing reciprocal services, all foreign countries 
are assumed to be under an agreement for the exchange of these services or be providing similar 
services to the United States, therefore, all foreign countries should be provided these routine 
airport services without cost.  (T-1) 
7.1.3.  Routine Airport Services Included: 
7.1.3.1.  Use of runways and taxiways and air traffic services. 
7.1.3.2.  Aircraft ground servicing to include "follow me" vehicles, marshalling, and wheel 
chocking, and power carts. 
7.1.3.3.  Foreign government aircraft are not charged landing and parking fees at United 
States military installations when issued a diplomatic clearance by Department of State. 
7.1.3.4.  Crew and passenger, baggage on/off loading, screening, and transportation 
to/from the aircraft, terminal, and base operations. 
7.1.3.5.  Additional routine services and support may be provided on a non-reimbursable 
basis at the discretion of the installation commander, provided there is no additional cost 
to the Air Force to do so.  These additional routine services and support may include: 
7.1.3.5.1.  Supply of compressed/liquid gases (including oxygen) if normally available 
on the installation. 
7.1.3.5.2.  Communications over military network if normally available on the 
installation. 
7.1.3.5.3.  Dispensary type medical services and urgent (emergency) dental treatment 
by the installation medical staff if approved by the installation commander. 
7.2.  Reimbursable Charges.  Fuel, supplies, and services furnished to a foreign governmental 
aircraft that result in additional cost to the Air Force will be charged to the foreign government.  
All charges for supplies and services will be processed under appropriate arrangements, e.g., 
foreign military sales case, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement, authorized credit card for 
fuel purchases, or billed directly to the foreign government. 
18 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
7.3.  For Base Finance Only  .  In Accordance with 10 United States Code Section 9626, Aircraft 
Supplies and Services: Foreign Military or Other State Aircraft and 10 United States Code, Subtitle 
A, Part IV, Chapter 131, Section 2208, Working-Capital Funds if routine airport services are 
provided to foreign governmental aircraft on a non-reimbursable basis by a working-capital fund 
activity of the Air Force and such activity is not reimbursed directly for the costs incurred in 
providing such services, the working-capital funds activity shall be reimbursed for such costs out 
of funds currently available to the Air Force for operations and maintenance (T-1). 
 
 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
19 
Chapter 8 
RANK/HONOR CODES 
8.1.  Distinguished Visitors, Foreign Dignitaries and Very Important Persons. 
8.1.1.  All Distinguished Visitors, Foreign Dignitaries and Very Important Persons will be 
coded and handled in accordance with the Department of Defense General Planning Flight 
Information Publication posted on the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency’s website 
(https://aerodata.nga.mil/AeroDownload/?section=flip).  Since the Flight Information 
Publication is designed for United States military use, Flight Information Publication Planning 
contains aeronautical information that may not be applicable to other users of the document, 
but the General Planning Section contains information that is applicable worldwide. 
8.1.2.  Pilot Very Important Person notification procedures.  It is the responsibility of each 
aircraft commander (Officer In-Charge/Pilot In-Command) transporting Very Important 
Persons to ensure that flight plans reflect highest rank on board.  A follow-up report is made 
approximately 15 to 30 minutes prior to arrival at destination base (United States Air Force 
installations).  Follow-up action is essential to ensure that proper protocol and courtesies are 
provided to the Very Important Person, the station Commander, or the Aircraft Commander.  
When available, Pilot to Dispatcher or Command Post radio should be used. 
8.1.3.  Use the service category designator letter, plus the number code and the honors code 
letter listed in the DoD Flight Information Publication, General Planning guide, FLIGHT 
PLAN VIP CODES to indicate service category, highest rank/grade aboard and honors desired 
(for national and international flights).  The name of the highest Very Important Person may 
be included immediately following the code at the Very Important Person’s discretion.  For 
itineraries involving multiple United States installation stops designate pick-up and drop-off 
points of Very Important Person. 
 
MARK C. NOWLAND, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
20 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Title 10 United States Code, Subtitle D, Part IV, chapter 939, Section 9626, Aircraft supplies and 
services: foreign military or other state aircraft, 22 April 2018. 
Title 10 United States Code, Subtitle A, Part IV, Chapter 131, Section 2208, Working-Capital 
Funds, 22 Apr 2018. 
32 Code of Federal Regulation, Part 855, Unauthorized Landings, 8 January 2018. 
49 Code of Federal Regulation Part 172, Purpose and use of hazardous materials table, 1 
October 2011. 
49 Code of Federal Regulation Part 173, Class 1 – Definitions, 1 October 2011. 
Air Force Policy Directive 10-18, Foreign Governmental Aircraft Use of United States Air Force 
Airfields, 1 March 1997. 
Air Force Instruction 31-101, Integrated Defense, 19 September 2016. 
Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. 1 December 2015, 
AFGM2016-01, 30 November 2016. 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, Incorporating Change 2, 9 
June 2016, AFGM2017-01, 2 June 2017. 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 679, Air Force publication Compliance Item Waiver Request/Approval 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Acronyms and Abbreviations 
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration 
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Terms 
Aircraft—Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designated for navigation 
of or flight in navigable airspace as defined in the Federal Aviation Act. 
Airfield—An area prepared for the accommodation (including any buildings, installations, and 
equipment), landing, and take-off of aircraft. 
Civil Aircraft—Any United States or foreign-registered aircraft owned by non-Governmental 
entities, and foreign Government-owned aircraft that are operated for commercial purposes. 
Civil Aviation—All civil aircraft of any national registry. 
 
 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
21 
Emergency Landing—An emergency landing is a prioritized landing made by an aircraft in 
response to an emergency which contains an imminent or on-going threat to the safety and 
operation of the aircraft or involves a sudden need for a passenger or crew on board to be on land 
such as a medical emergency. 
General Aviation-—Civil aircraft that do not transport passengers or cargo for hire. 
Government Aircraft—Aircraft owned, operated, or controlled for exclusive, long-term use by 
any department or agency of either the United States or a foreign Government; and aircraft owned 
by any United States state, county, municipality or other political subdivision; or any aircraft for 
which a Government has the liability responsibility.  In the context of this instruction, it includes 
foreign registered aircraft, which are normally commercially operated, that have been wholly 
chartered for use by foreign Government heads of state for official state visits. 
Headquarters United States Air Force—The Headquarters United States Air Force is comprised 
of both Secretariat and Air Staff Offices. 
Inadvertent Landing—aircraft operator landed due to flight disorientation or mistook the United 
States Air Force installation for a civil airport. 
Installation Commander—the individual with ultimate responsibility for airfield operations.   
Normally, the flying wing or operations group commander that is responsible for all airfield flight 
activities. 
Intentional Unauthorized Landing—the pilot of the aircraft knew the landing was unauthorized. 
Military Aircraft—Aircraft used exclusively in the military services of the United States or a 
foreign Government and bearing appropriate military and national markings or carrying 
appropriate identification. 
Operational Control—The authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate 
forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating 
objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission.  Also called 
OPCON. 
Unauthorized Landing—A landing at an Air Force airfield by a civil aircraft without prior 
authority. 
 
22 
AFI10-1801  25 SEPTEMBER 2018 
Attachment 2 
HAZARDOUS CLASSIFICATION CODES 
A2.1.  Explosive Classification.  Explosive Classification is broken down into the following six 
divisions as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, Subtitle B, Chapter I, Subchapter 
C, Part 172, Subpart B, § 172.101, Purpose and use of hazardous materials table and Code of 
Federal Regulations, Title 49, Subtitle B, Chapter I, Subchapter C, Part 173, Subpart C, § 173.50, 
Class 1 - Definitions: 
Figure A2.1.  Hazardous Classification Codes. 
 
1.1 – Mass explosive 
1.2 – Non-mass explosion, fragment-producing 
1.3 – Mass fire, minor blast or fragment 
1.4 – Moderate fire, no blast or fragment 
1.5 – Explosive substance, very insensitive (with a mass explosion hazard) 
1.6 – Explosive article, extremely insensitive 
 
 
 
