BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-301 
20 DECEMBER 2017 
Operations 
MANAGING OPERATIONAL 
UTILIZATION REQUIREMENTS OF 
THE AIR RESERVE COMPONENT 
FORCES 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: HQ USAF/A3H 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI 10-301, 16 August 2006 
Certified by: HQ USAF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark C. Nowland) 
Pages: 14 
 
 
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-3, Operational Utilization of the Air 
Reserve Component Forces.  It provides guidance and procedures for Department of Defense 
Directive 1200.17, Managing the Reserve Components as an Operational Force, and 
Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components.  It outlines 
responsibilities of the Regular Air Force and the Air Reserve Components, comprised of the Air 
National Guard and the Air Force Reserve, to ensure that Air Reserve Component units and 
personnel meet training and readiness standards.  It also directs the identification, collection, 
maintenance, and visibility of Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements to 
support planning and decision-making at all levels. 
This instruction applies to the Total Force, which includes all Air Force military personnel in the 
Regular Air Force and the Air Reserve Component, as well as Air Force civilian personnel. The 
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier 
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See Air Force Instruction 
33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with 
the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate 
Tier waiver approval authority or to the Publication Office of Primary Responsibility for non-
tiered compliance items. 
 
 
2 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
Maintain all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance 
with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them in accordance with 
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule in the Air Force Records Information Management 
System.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this directive to the Office of Primary 
Responsibility using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air 
Force Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This instruction has been revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. 
 
1.  Overview.  This instruction outlines roles and responsibilities for accessing the Air Reserve 
Component as an operational force and managing requirements through the Air Reserve 
Component utilization cycle. 
1.1.  Access to the Air Reserve Component will be in accordance with Department of 
Defense Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components, and Department of 
Defense Directive 1200.17, Managing the Reserve Components as an Operational Force, 
where members participate in missions in an established cyclic or periodic manner that 
provides predictability for the combatant commands, the Services, Service members, their 
families, and employers.  Use of members outside those periods is permissible using 
volunteerism as long as it has a minimal effect on unit readiness or the mission. 
1.2.  This document does not govern Air Reserve Component utilization policies and 
processes that are part of the Global Force Management Allocation Plan.  The Air Reserve 
Component utilization cycle outlined in Section 2 only manages Air Reserve Component 
utilization requirements outside of the Global Force Management process. 
1.3.  Definition of Air Reserve Component operational utilization.  Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization includes any authorized use of the Air Reserve Component allowed by 
statute, regulation, and policy, including operational missions assigned in whole or part to the 
Air Reserve Component.  It includes the use of the Air Reserve Component to carry out 
strategic, operational, tactical, service, training, or administrative missions, even when such 
use is incidental to Air Reserve Component training. 
1.3.1.  Air Reserve Component operational utilization does not apply to the Air National 
Guard when members are in a State Active Duty (or Militia) status. 
1.3.2.  The term does apply when the Air National Guard provides support to federal 
agencies and to state, local, and foreign governments, including:  Defense Support of 
Civil Authorities under the National Response Framework; military training support 
provided to foreign nations pursuant to Title 22 United States Code; support provided to 
the State Partnership Program administered by the National Guard Bureau; and support in 
response to United States Government interagency requests. 
 
 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
3 
2.  The Air Reserve Component Utilization Cycle.    The Air Reserve Component Utilization 
Cycle is the six-step process model the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3)  
uses to manage Air Reserve Component operational utilization.  In collaboration with existing 
Air Force corporate processes, it manages how the Air Reserve Component executes missions 
that would normally be assigned in whole or in part to the active duty force. 
2.1.  Requirements.  Identifying the full mission requirement for Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization by collecting, tracking, and organizing relevant data, and prioritizing 
requirements. 
2.2.  Resourcing.  Allocating funding resources for mandays and associated Operation and 
Maintenance costs.  These costs cover Reserve, Guard, and Regular Air Force appropriations 
and reimbursable costs to help identify, categorize, and prioritize mission requirements. 
2.3.  Sourcing.  Matching validated and funded mission requirements with Air Force Reserve 
Command/Air National Guard units and/or personnel to meet the requirements. 
2.4.  Executing.  Obtaining orders to transition Air Reserve Component members to a 
military status, transporting Air Reserve Component members to duty locations, executing 
Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements, and finalizing required 
documentation to complete the orders. 
2.5.  Assessing.  Using data to evaluate each step of the Air Reserve Component Utilization 
Cycle step and assess trends. 
2.6.  Forecasting.  Identifying future operational requirements, changes in policy and public 
law, and any other factors that might affect the projected operational utilization of the Air 
Reserve Component.  Using forecasts to improve planning, programming, budgeting, force 
structure, policies, and other force-shaping influences to Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization. 
3.  Responsibilities of the Air National Guard 
3.1.  Operational Readiness. The governors, through the adjutants general of the states, 
commonwealths, or territories; and the President, through the Commanding General in the 
case of the District of Columbia, will ensure training of their respective units conforms to the 
same standards established by the gaining commands for similar units of the regular force. 
(T-2). 
3.1.1.  Gaining major commands – active duty commands to which Air National Guard 
forces are assigned when activated – monitor and periodically evaluate readiness levels of 
the Air National Guard forces to ensure they are ready to function effectively. (T-2). 
3.2.  Applicability of Publications.  The National Guard Bureau will determine which 
publications of the gaining command will also provide direction to non-mobilized Air 
National Guard units. These publications apply when published to Air Force e-publishing. 
(T-2). 
3.2.1.  Major Command publications apply to Air National Guard units when the 
Director, Air National Guard concurs with the opening statement of applicability in the 
publication.  Refer to Air Force Instruction 33-360, paragraph 1.16, Determining 
Applicability of Departmental, Command, and Field Publications to the ANG. (T-2). 
4 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
3.3.  National Guard Bureau Responsibilities. Refer to Department of Defense Directive 
5105.77, National Guard Bureau, for all National Guard Bureau responsibilities and 
functions with respect to reviewing and monitoring the training, readiness, and safety of Air 
National Guard units. 
3.3.1.  The National Guard Bureau will provide gaining commands with copies of 
applicable training program policies and publications. (T-2). 
3.3.2.  The National Guard Bureau, in coordination with Air National Guard units, will 
investigate and report mishaps as prescribed in appropriate United States Air Force 
publications. (T-2). 
3.3.3.  The National Guard Bureau, in coordination with Air National Guard units, will 
identify any risks to its ability to sustain strategic reserve depth resulting from 
commitments in a specific career field, theater, or timeframe. (T-2) 
3.3.4.  Air National Guard units will establish and maintain effective safety and training 
programs that are compatible with those of the gaining commands. (T-2). 
3.3.5.  The 201st Mission Support Squadron, a subordinate unit of the Air National Guard 
Readiness Center, exercises general administrative control of all Air National Guard 
members operating under Title 10 United States Code worldwide, with the exception of 
Air National Guard personnel on statutory tours of duty assigned or attached to the Air 
National Guard Readiness Center (in accordance with Air Force Mission Directive 50, 
Air National Guard Readiness Center, paragraph 2.2.).  The Regular Air Force unit to 
which Guard members are assigned may still have specified administrative control (for 
example, disciplinary matters). 
3.4.  Gaining Major Commands will perform the following functions to ensure the 
operational readiness of all gained Air National Guard forces, both individual and unit: 
3.4.1.  Establish training standards and objectives and provide training publications for 
use by Air National Guard forces. (T-2). 
3.4.2.  Evaluate effectiveness of training, readiness, and safety of Air National Guard 
forces, such as would be accomplished during a wartime exercise. (T-2). 
3.4.3.  Provide Total Force leaders and stakeholders with the total projected Air National 
Guard operational utilization within functional areas. (T-2) 
3.4.4.  Review the organizational structure of Air National Guard units to ensure their 
capability to perform wartime missions. (T-2).  Coordinate necessary changes with the 
National Guard Bureau and submit to Headquarters Air Force for approval. (T-2). 
3.4.5.  Include Air National Guard forces in Air Force programming, contingency 
planning, and exercise planning and execution. (T-2). 
3.4.6.  Approve and assist in formulating Air National Guard unit mobility, mobilization 
and contingency plans, and host-tenant agreements. (T-2). 
3.4.7.  Periodically review Air National Guard organizational equipment authorizations 
and allowances to make sure that each type of unit is properly equipped. (T-2). 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
5 
3.4.8.  Provide funding for Air National Guard units and personnel when operating 
Regular Air Force equipment or when augmenting the Regular Air Force beyond 
prescribed training periods funded by Air National Guard appropriations. (T-2). 
3.4.9.  Provide advocacy and a funding strategy for Air National Guard equipment 
modifications and other acquisitions in accordance with Air Force policy. (T-2). 
4.  Responsibilities of the Air Force Reserve Command 
4.1.  Air Force Reserve Command (as a Regular Air Force Major Command) will: 
4.1.1.  Ensure that the training of its units and personnel conforms to standards 
established by Air Force Instructions. (T-2). 
4.1.2.  Publish instructions and/or supplements to Air Force publications that provide 
direction in areas unique to the Air Force Reserve and complement those of the Regular 
Air Force (T-2). 
4.1.2.1.  Major Command publications apply to Air Force Reserve Command units 
when the Air Force Reserve Command Office of Primary Responsibility concurs with 
the opening statement of applicability in the publication.  Refer to Air Force 
Instruction 33-360, paragraph 1.14, Determining Applicability of Major Command 
Publications to Air Force Reserve Command Units and Personnel. 
4.1.3.  Validate the training, readiness, and safety of Air Force Reserve Command units 
and personnel in conjunction with force providers or Service components.  (T-2). 
4.1.4.  In accordance with Air Force Instruction 38-101, Air Force Organization, review 
and advocate the organizational structure of units to ensure their capability to perform 
wartime missions, and request a waiver from Headquarters United States Air Force if a 
unit’s unique mission or location requires a different structure. (T-2). 
4.1.5.  Prepare, present, and defend Air Force Reserve strategic plans and budgets and 
facilitate mission and equipment modernization programs. Validate command resource 
requirements and submit inputs into Air Force programming, contingency planning, and 
exercise planning. (T-2). 
4.1.6.  Ensure that the Air Reserve Personnel Center implements programs, plans, 
policies, and procedures pertaining to Air Force Reserve Command assigned military and 
civilian personnel. (T-2). 
4.1.7.  Ensure that the Headquarters Individual Reservist Readiness and Integration 
Organization integrates mission-ready Individual Reserve forces to meet Air Force and 
Combatant Commander requirements. (T-2). 
4.1.8.  Provide advocacy and a funding strategy as Lead Command for Air Force Reserve 
equipment modifications and other acquisitions. (T-2). 
4.1.9.  Manage plans, programs, and budgets to execute missions that have been assigned 
in whole or in part to Air Force Reserve Command for execution, if funded by the Air 
Reserve Component.  Exercise close coordination with planning staffs at Department of 
Defense, Air Force, and Major Command levels, using their expertise to ensure full and 
timely input to the strategic and operational planning process. (T-2). 
6 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
4.1.10.  Validate Air Force Reserve Command personnel ability to fill mission 
requirements through processes established by the Air Force Reserve Command Force 
Generation Center. (T-2).  The Force Generation Center manages sourcing solutions for 
Air Force Reserve Command. 
4.1.11.  Provide Total Force leaders and stakeholders with the total projected Air Force 
Reserve operational utilization within functional areas. (T-2) 
4.1.12.  Identify risks to the Air Force Reserve’s ability to sustain strategic reserve depth 
resulting from commitments in a specific career field, theater, or timeframe. (T-2) 
4.2.  The Air Force Reserve Command Commander exercises administrative control over 
assigned personnel at all levels of activation through full mobilization (Title 10 United States 
Code Section 10174).  The Regular Air Force unit to which Reserve members are assigned 
may have specified administrative control (for example, disciplinary matters). 
5.  Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations 
5.1.  All Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations requesting use of the Air Reserve 
Component will: 
5.1.1.  Use systems, methods, and procedures specified by the Air Force Deputy Chief of 
Staff, Operations (AF/A3) for documenting Air Reserve Component utilization. (T-2).  
This will ensure the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution system addresses 
operational requirements, and ensure the requirements meet statutory, policy, and 
operational standards. 
5.1.1.1.  When identifying mission and manpower requirements, Air Reserve 
Component Utilizing Organizations must also identify associated travel and per diem 
costs. (T-2). 
5.1.2.  Monitor, maintain, and document operational requirements for Air Reserve 
Component utilization using methods or systems specified by the Air Reserve 
Component Requirements Cell (see paragraph 7). (T-2). 
5.1.2.1.  Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations may use their own internal 
processes to document and maintain their Air Reserve Component operational 
requirements.  However, ultimately their Functional Area Managers are responsible to 
document and maintain requirements data in the system specified by the Air Force 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3). 
5.1.3.  Maintain awareness of deploy-to-dwell (the ratio of how long a military member is 
deployed versus at home), mobilization-to-dwell (the ratio of how long a member is 
mobilized versus not-mobilized), personnel tempo (how long a member is away from 
home station), and other agreed-upon measures of Total Force supply and demand for 
members of all three components in all career fields. (T-2). 
 
 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
7 
5.1.4.  Support a three-component community of interest within the governance of the 
Secretary of the Air Force, Management Office (SAF/MG).  (T-2).  This community of 
interest will focus on the structure of data panels that coordinate the plans and efforts of 
all relevant information technology and data systems that support tasks in the Air Reserve 
Component utilization cycle.  This will facilitate the development of data architectures, 
information exchange standards, and data sharing agreements that foster the integration 
and exchange of data among systems supporting the Air Reserve Component utilization 
cycle. 
6.  Responsibilities of the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) 
6.1.  The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) will: 
6.1.1.  Develop, communicate, and apply a standardized weighting methodology for Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization requirements that is informed by the Plan to 
Program Guidance put out annually by the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic 
Plans, Program, and Requirements (AF/A5/8).  The weighting methodology should also 
consider Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff of the Air Force special interest 
areas, and other considerations, including travel and per diem costs associated with the 
requirements (reference Air Force Instruction 65-503, United States Air Force Cost and 
Planning Factors, Table A61-1, Man-Day Support Cost Estimating Tool). (T-2). 
6.1.2.  Using the weighting methodology described in paragraph 6.1, derive an Air Force-
prioritized mission requirements list for Air Reserve Component utilization and provide 
that prioritized list to the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel & 
Services (AF/A1) for validation and resourcing. (T-2). 
6.1.3.  Using the prioritized mission requirements list and the weighting methodology, 
recommend withholds and allocations of mandays to the appropriate resource managers, 
whether at the Major Commands, Headquarters Air Force, or other Air Reserve 
Component Utilizing Organizations. (T-2). 
6.1.4.  Be the focal point for emergent Air Reserve Component operational utilization 
requirements in any funding discussions, decisions, or panels  (e.g., the Active Duty 
Operational Support Panel) needed to source those requirements.  Advocate agile funding 
decisions informed by mission-focused priorities for both enduring and emergent 
requirements. (T-2). 
6.1.5.  Provide regular updates on Air Reserve Component operational utilization 
requirements to the Personnel Budget Review Committee, which oversees the Active Air 
Force Military Personnel appropriation and the Air Force Civilian Personnel budget, and 
also advises the Air Force Board and the Air Force Council on all issues related to the 
personnel program, budgeting, and execution. (T-3). 
6.1.6.  Collect data from Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations for projected 
and estimated support costs (e.g., travel and per diem) related to Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization, and provide that data to relevant resource authorities. (T-2). 
 
 
8 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
6.1.7.  Provide visibility of Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements 
in accordance with the United States Air Force Strategic Master Plan. (T-2). 
6.1.8.  Establish a Community of Interest with standards and reporting methodology 
including (but not limited to) systems such as the Department of Defense Readiness 
Reporting System, the Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution System, and 
the Manpower Military Personnel Appropriation Man-Day Management System. (T-2).  
These system capabilities, data architecture standards, and data integrations will be the 
foundation for Air Reserve Component operational utilization implementation and 
monitoring, and Air Reserve Component force visibility.  Further, the Community of 
Interest should: 
6.1.8.1.  Support processes, policies, information systems, and infrastructure that 
improve Air Reserve Component operational utilization. 
6.1.8.2.  Develop and refine information sharing tools to ensure access to information 
about and visibility of Air Reserve Component utilization to all stakeholders. 
6.1.8.3.  Synchronize efforts to enhance integration, standards, and data sharing to 
create information technology strategies, and to implement plans to support the Air 
Reserve Component utilization cycle and associated processes. 
6.1.8.4.  Ensure the generation of reliable metrics (historical, present and future) from 
data in multiple systems supporting the Air Reserve Component utilization cycle. 
6.1.8.5.  Leverage existing geospatial shared services platforms and available 
geospatial analytic tools to provide geographically-oriented insights and visibility to 
Air Reserve Component utilization stakeholders. 
7.  The Air Reserve Component Requirements Cell  . The Air Reserve Component 
Requirements Cell resides in the Headquarters Air Force Operations Division (AF/A3).  Its 
mission is to collect all requirements data needed to implement the Air Reserve Component 
Utilization Cycle (see paragraph 2).  This includes data regarding Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization requirements from Major Commands, Air Reserve Component Utilizing 
Organizations, Air Force Reserve Command, and the National Guard Bureau, as well as those 
funded by outside agencies.  The Air Reserve Component Requirements Cell will: 
7.1.  Specify systems, methods, and responsibilities for Major Commands and Air Reserve 
Component Utilizing Organizations to document their Air Reserve Component operational 
requirements for the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution system. (T-2). 
7.2.  Assist Major Commands and Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations with 
categorizing and prioritizing Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements 
based on five categories, which include: 
7.2.1.  Combatant Commander Operations:  Air Reserve Component operational use to 
meet Combatant Commander requirements documented in the Global Force Management 
Allocation Plan or other Combatant Commander-assigned force demand, including 
requirements for deployed and assigned forces. 
7.2.2.  Combatant Commander Joint Exercises and Training: Air Reserve Component 
utilization for Combatant Commander-sponsored joint exercises, training, and other 
functions as stated in United States Code Title 10, sub-paragraph 164. 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
9 
7.2.3.  United States Air Force Service Operations: Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization for Air Force operational support requirements that are not specifically 
covered in the Global Force Management Allocation Plan. 
7.2.4.  United States Air Force Service Exercises and Training: Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization for support of Air Force service-directed exercises, training, and 
other Organize, Train, and Equip functions as stated in United States Code Title 10, sub-
paragraph 8013(b)(1)–(12). 
7.2.5.  Outside Agency Generated Requirements:  Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization for requirements generated outside of the Air Force to include reimbursable 
missions performed by the Air Reserve Component, including support to other military 
branches and to other Department of Defense and non-Department of Defense agencies, 
when the type of funding is acceptable to the Military Personnel Account. 
7.3.  Use planning and programming guidance promulgated annually by the Air Force 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans, Program, and Requirements, as well as Secretary 
of the Air Force and Chief of Staff of the Air Force priorities, to update and publish 
prioritization rules for Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements. (T-3). 
7.4.  Ensure prioritized Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements are 
considered in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution process. (T-3). 
7.5.  Maintain all Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements.  Also, 
maintain their prioritization as determined by the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, 
Operations (AF/A3). (T-2). 
7.6.  Provide visibility of, and cross-functional access to, Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization requirements in order to inform the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and 
Execution system process. (T-3). 
7.7.  Provide operational requirements data to Core Function Leads to develop Core Function 
Support Plans. (T-2). 
7.8.  Develop and implement a collaborative process for collecting and managing Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization requirements that leverages existing Air Force 
and Major Command corporate processes to inform the resourcing process. (T-3). 
7.8.1.  The Decision Support position in the Air Reserve Component Requirements Cell 
(a Major in the Air Force Reserve) will lead and support a Community of Interest to 
coordinate data and information technology standards and promote compatibility of 
systems, formats, and processes to manage Air Reserve Component utilization. (T-3). 
7.9.  Compile and maintain comprehensive Air Reserve Component Utilization Projections in 
coordination with relevant resource managers (those in Major Commands, on the 
Headquarters Air Force staff, or elsewhere), in order to document annual Air Reserve 
Component operational utilization requirements and the resourcing needed to pay for the  
identified support tail (i.e. travel and per diem). (T-3). 
7.9.1.  Maintain concurrent Air Reserve Component Utilization Projections for three 
fiscal cycles:  programming year (2-5 year Future Years Defense Program), budget year 
(one year ahead), and execution year (current fiscal year being executed). (T-3). 
10 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
7.9.2.  Update Air Reserve Component utilization requirements in order to coordinate 
with resource owners on at least a quarterly basis during the execution year. (T-3). 
7.9.3.  Work with resource owners to provide accurate execution year Air Reserve 
Component Utilization Projections while affording Major Commands and Air Reserve 
Component Utilizing Organizations flexibility to reallocate requirements and allocations 
to meet short-notice requirements. (T-2). 
7.9.4.  Use Air Reserve Component Utilization Projections to enable resource owners and 
Air Force leaders to plan for, prioritize, and allocate resources throughout the Planning, 
Programming, Budgeting, and Execution system process and to understand the full 
operational demand for Air Reserve Component utilization. (T-2). 
7.9.5.  Ensure appropriate classification and protection of data, especially if the 
aggregation of Air Reserve Component utilization information changes the overall 
classification of the information. (T-3). 
7.9.6.  Use annual Air Reserve Component Utilization Projections to make plans with Air 
Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard for future Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization, and to support briefings to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
regarding Air Reserve Component operational utilization. (T-3). 
7.10.  Provide assistance to Major Commands, Air Reserve Component Utilizing 
Organizations, and Core Function Leads to document enduring and recurring Air Reserve 
Component operational utilization requirements. (T-3). 
7.11.  Compile a list of emergent Air Reserve Component operational utilization 
requirements and provide them to AF/A3 representatives for presentation to, and 
consideration by, requirements, resourcing, and sourcing forums. (T-2). 
7.12.  Use reasonable methods and data-vetted inferences to measure the dual benefit of Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization (training that benefits operations and/or 
operations that benefit training) without prescribing training approaches used by the Air 
Reserve Component.  (T-3). 
7.12.1.  Gather data annually on actual execution of Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization requirements versus what was planned. 
7.12.2.  Gather data annually (every September) on under-execution of mandays to 
supply to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and include any justification provided by the 
respective Major Commands and Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations for 
such under-execution. 
7.12.3.  In collaboration with resource owners and the Personnel Budget Review 
Committee, determine thresholds for triggering reporting of resource under-execution 
(e.g. 3% of allocated) and publish them at the beginning of the respective fiscal year. 
 
 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
11 
 
7.13.  Provide administrative support for Total Force Operational Requirements Coordination 
Events, at which Functional Area Managers and Air Force leaders identify mutually 
beneficial operations and training opportunities for Air Reserve Component utilization. 
 
MARK C. NOWLAND, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
12 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 
Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 (Air Force 
Guidance Memorandum 30 November 2016) 
Air Force Instruction 36-2619, Military Personnel Appropriation Manday Program, 18 July 
2014 
Air Force Instruction 38-101, Air Force Organization, 31 January 2017 
Air Force Instruction 65-503, United States Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 February 
1994 (Interim Change 23 February 2017) 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 (Interim Change 21 July 
2016; Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2 June 2017) 
Air Force Policy Directive 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces, 16 August 2006 (Interim 
Change 16 April 2007) 
Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Tersm, As of August 2017 
Department of Defense Directive 1200.17, Managing the Reserve Components as an 
Operational Force, 29 October 2008 
Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components. 7 June 2016 
(Change 1, 28 Feb 2017) 
Department of Defense Directive 5105.77, National Guard Bureau, 30 October 2015 
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces 
United States Air Force Strategic Master Plan, May 2015. 
Terms 
Administrative Control —Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other 
organizations in respect to administration and support. [DOD Dictionary of Military and 
Associated Terms, 2017] 
Air Reserve Component operational utilization —Any authorized use of the Air Reserve 
Component allowed by statute, regulation, or policy, including operational missions assigned to 
the Air Reserve Component.  It includes use of the Air Reserve Component for service, training, 
or administrative missions even when such use is incidental to Air Reserve Component training. 
Air Reserve Component Utilization Cycle —The six-step Air Force process model for 
managing Air Reserve Component operational utilization.  The steps are: requirements, 
resourcing, sourcing, execution, assessing, and forecasting. 
Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organization—Any organization that engages in Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization. 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
13 
Air Reserve Component Utilization Projection —An annual report that addresses how the 
active duty Air Force wants to use the Air Reserve Component to meet operational requirements 
and how it will account for this use in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution 
system process. 
Command —The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over 
subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. [DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated 
Terms, 2017] 
Combatant Commander —A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant 
commands.  [DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 2017] 
Core Function Lead (CFL)—The SecAF/CSAF-appointed senior leader responsible for 
specific Core Functions providing AF-level, long-term views.  CFLs integrate Total Force 
concepts, capabilities, modernization, and resourcing to ensure future assigned core capabilities 
across the range of military operations as directed by AF Strategy and Strategic Planning 
Guidance. (Air Force Instruction 90-1001, Planning Total Force Associations) 
Core Function Support Plans (CFSP)—Plans developed by Major Command and Core 
Function lead staffs to support annual refinement of the 30-year Resource Allocation Plan, 
capability gap prioritization, capabilities investment, and Science and Technology priorities. 
CFSPs also provide detailed analysis to support the Air Force Strategy, Strategic Master Plan 
objectives, and the Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution process. (Air 
Force Instruction 90-1001, Planning Total Force Associations) 
Force Provider— The force element that equips an operational or exercise force element. 
Functional Area Manager — The principal advisor to a commander, functional director, or 
Deputy Chief of Staff on the management and oversight of all personnel and equipment within a 
specific functional area that supports operational planning and execution. 
Gaining Major Command—The active duty Major Command to which an Air National Guard 
wing or unit is assigned when that wing or unit is activated. 
Mission — The act of accomplishing a task or objective pertaining to any of the following:  1) a 
Title 10 Air Force service mission responsibility; 2) Secretary of Defense-directed Air Force 
support to a Combatant Commander; 3) a Combatant Commander, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, or Commander of a Numbered Air Force Execution Order; or 4) as stated in the Air 
Force, Major Command, or unit mission directive. 
Mobilization — The process by which the Armed Forces are brought to a state of readiness for 
war or other national emergency. This includes activating all or part of the Air Reserve 
Component, as well as assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel. [DOD 
Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 2017] 
Operational Readiness—The capability of a unit/formation, ship, weapon system, or equipment 
to perform the missions or functions for which it is organized or designed.  This term may be 
used in a general sense to express a level or degree of readiness. [DOD Dictionary of Military 
and Associated Terms, 2017] 
Regular Air Force — The component of the Air Force that consists of persons whose 
continuous service on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired 
members of the Regular Air Force. [10 United States Code §8075] 
14 
AFI10-301  20 DECEMBER 2017 
Total Force—The United States Air Force organizations, units, and individuals that provide the 
capabilities to support the Department of Defense in implementing the national security strategy. 
This includes Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve military personnel, 
United States Air Force military retired members, civilian personnel (including foreign national 
direct- and indirect-hire, as well as non-appropriated fund employees), contractor staff, and host-
nation support personnel. [Air Force Doctrine Document 1-2] 
Total Force Operational Requirements Coordination Event—A forum where key 
stakeholders from a particular functional community come together periodically to review Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization requirements where there might be potential mutual 
Active / Reserve Component benefit.  Total Force events allow the Air Reserve Component 
operators, planners, and functional managers to identify opportunities in a 1-2 year timeframe to 
leverage annual Air Reserve Component training obligations at relevant operational events for 
mutual benefit. 
 
