BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-420 
6 OCTOBER 2017 
Operations 
COMBAT AIR FORCES  
AVIATION SCHEDULING 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no Releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: HQ ACC/A3O 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI10-420, 9 July 2010 
Certified by: AF/A3O  
(Mr. Steven A. Ruehl) 
Pages: 33 
 
 
This instruction implements AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary 
Force (AEF).  This AFI describes the responsibilities and procedures used to schedule Combat 
Air Forces (CAF) aviation assets by the CAF Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team 
(SIPT).  This instruction is applicable to all Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and subordinate 
agencies possessing CAF aviation assets.  This instruction applies to Air National Guard (ANG) 
and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).  For the purpose of this instruction, the Air National 
Guard is functionally considered to be a MAJCOM. 
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a 
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, 
Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated 
with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the 
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered 
compliance items. 
Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ 
ACC/A3O8, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Langley AFB VA 23665-2789, using the AF IMT 847, 
Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Ensure that all records created as a result of 
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force 
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System 
(AFRIMS). 
2 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Chapter 1 
introduces the CAF Force Generation (CAFFORGEN) Model as the principal means of 
implementing Global Force Management (GFM) as it relates to CAF contingency scheduling.  
Chapter 3 includes an extensive rewrite of the Air Force orders process which mimics that of 
the Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP).  Chapter 4 provides an updated 
discussion of the contingency scheduling process and includes new sections on CAF 
mobilization and pre-deployment training requirements.  Minor changes have been made to 
Chapter 5 to account for a change from a four month training build to a six month training 
build.  Chapter 6 includes time-lines for completion of Aviation Change Requests (ACRs) and 
for submission of MAJCOM Aviation Schedule (CPS) requirements.  Attachment 5 has been 
added to explain the automated tool suite maintained on the ACC Operations Center Website. 
 
Chapter 1— COMBAT AIR FORCES SCHEDULING GUIDANCE 
 
4 
1.1. 
 Introduction. ............................................................................................................  
4 
1.2. 
 Global Force Management (GFM). ........................................................................  
4 
1.3. 
 Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP). .........................................  
4 
1.4. 
 Roles and Responsibilities. .....................................................................................  
4 
1.5. 
 Centralized CAF Aviation Scheduling. ..................................................................  
5 
1.6. 
 CAF Force Generation Model (CAFFORGEN). ....................................................  
5 
1.7. 
 Decreasing the Requirement on Mobility Air Forces Air Bridge. ..........................  
5 
1.8. 
 CAF Forces Not Included in the CAFFORGEN Rotational Force Pool. ...............  
5 
Chapter 2— CAF AVIATION SCHEDULING INTEGRATED PRODUCT TEAM (SIPT)  
6 
2.1. 
 CAF Aviation SIPT Mission. ..................................................................................  
6 
2.2. 
 CAF Aviation SIPT Membership. ..........................................................................  
6 
2.3. 
 CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat..............................................................  
6 
2.4. 
 MAJCOM Aviation SIPTs. .....................................................................................  
6 
Chapter 3— CAF AVIATION SCHEDULE AND ORDERS PROCESS 
 
7 
3.1. 
 Introduction. ............................................................................................................  
7 
3.2. 
 Aviation Scheduling Software. ...............................................................................  
7 
3.3. 
 Aviation Schedule Development. ...........................................................................  
7 
3.4. 
 Aviation Schedule Dates. ........................................................................................  
7 
3.5. 
 Event Funding. ........................................................................................................  
8 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
3 
3.6. 
 Air Force Orders Process. .......................................................................................  
8 
3.7. 
 Aviation Schedule Historical Database. .................................................................  
9 
Chapter 4— CAF CONTINGENCY SCHEDULING PROCESS 
 
10 
4.1. 
 CAF Resource Availability Pool. ...........................................................................  
10 
Table 4.1. 
 Percent of Unit (RC)/Tasked Aircraft. ....................................................................  
11 
4.2. 
 Contingency Scheduling Process ............................................................................  
11 
4.3. 
 CAF Mobilization Process. .....................................................................................  
12 
4.4. 
 RC Volunteerism in-lieu-of Mobilization. ..............................................................  
13 
4.5. 
 RC Deployment Extensions. ...................................................................................  
13 
4.6. 
 CAF Pre-Deployment Spin-Up Training. ...............................................................  
13 
4.7. 
 Contingency Scheduling Standards. .......................................................................  
14 
Chapter 5— EXERCISE AND TRAINING SCHEDULING PROCESS 
 
15 
5.1. 
 Unit Exercise and Training Availability. ................................................................  
15 
5.2. 
 Exercise and Training Scheduling Process .............................................................  
15 
5.3. 
 Exercise and Training Scheduling Standards..........................................................  
17 
Chapter 6— AVIATION SCHEDULE DATABASE MANAGEMENT 
 
19 
6.1. 
 Aviation Schedule Management Functions. ...........................................................  
19 
6.2. 
 Changes to the Aviation Schedule ..........................................................................  
19 
6.3. 
 ACR Processing. .....................................................................................................  
19 
6.4. 
 MAJCOM Aviation Schedule (CPS) Inputs. ..........................................................  
20 
6.5. 
 Directed Tasking. ....................................................................................................  
20 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
21 
Attachment 2— TRAINING BUILD TIMELINE 
 
26 
Attachment 3— CAF AVIATION SIPT EVENT DECONFLICTION PRIORITIES 
 
29 
Attachment 4— CONSOLIDATED PLANNING SCHEDULES (CPS) 
 
30 
Attachment 5— ACC OPERATIONS CENTER GFM / APEX TOOL SUITE 
 
32 
 
4 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Chapter 1 
COMBAT AIR FORCES SCHEDULING GUIDANCE 
1.1.  Introduction.  This instruction outlines the guidance, process, and rules by which the 
Combat Air Forces (CAF) Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team (SIPT) schedules CAF 
aviation assets.  It includes the Aviation SIPT’s role in the development, approval, and 
maintenance of the CAF Aviation Schedule (AS). 
1.2.  Global Force Management (GFM).  GFM is a Department of Defense process to align 
force apportionment, assignment, and allocation methodologies to support joint force availability 
requirements, enable comprehensive insight into global availability of U.S. military forces, and 
provide senior decision makers a vehicle to quickly and accurately assess the impact and risk of 
proposed allocation, assignment, and apportionment changes. 
1.3.  Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP).  The GFMAP is the execution 
aspect of force allocation through a formal process to allocate the Services’ rotational forces to 
meet combatant commander demands for military capabilities.  Recognizing that the global 
demand for rotational forces may exceed the available supply, the objectives of the GFMAP are 
to:  prioritize combatant commanders’ operational tasks and allocate rotational forces to satisfy 
those tasks; optimize force management to mitigate risk while balancing the Services’ organize, 
train, and equip responsibilities to meet future combatant commander tasks; establish a 
mechanism to provide joint solutions to combatant commander requirements; provide 
predictability for both Services’ rotational deployment scheduling and combatant commanders’ 
operational planning; and increase flexibility and options for senior leadership that facilitate 
Services’ ability to surge for war. 
1.3.1.  The Global Force Management Board (GFMB), chaired by the Joint Staff J3, and 
comprised of representatives from the Joint Staff, Services, and combatant commands, 
oversees the GFMAP process.  The GFMB assesses and prioritizes combatant command 
requests for rotational capabilities, provides a prioritized list of combatant command requests 
to the Joint Force Coordinator (JFC) or Joint Force Provider (JFP) to use in identifying Joint 
solutions for military capabilities among the Services, and frames any contentious issues for 
decision by the SecDef. 
1.3.2.  The Joint Staff Deputy Director for Global Force Management (JS/J35) serves as the 
JFC for conventional forces.  US Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) and US 
Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) serve as JFPs for special operations and 
mobility forces.  The JFC, working through the Services, provides global conventional 
sourcing recommendations via the GFMAP to fill GFMB validated rotational or emergent 
force requirements.  After GFMB review, the GFMAP is submitted to the Secretary of 
Defense for approval.  The SecDef-approved GFMAP provides authority for named forces to 
deploy in support of Combatant Commander (CCDR) requirements. 
1.4.  Roles and Responsibilities.  ACC/A3O, in coordination with the SIPT Executive 
Secretariat will be responsible for scheduling all Combat Aviation Units for GFMAP tasking.  
The Aviation Schedule Consolidated Planning System (CPS) will be the primary means of 
scheduling 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
5 
1.5.  Centralized CAF Aviation Scheduling.  CAF aviation uses a centralized scheduling 
process described herein that facilitates an equitable distribution of assigned tasks.  The CAF 
Aviation SIPT manages the scheduling process of 3-series UTCs containing aircraft, control and 
reporting center (CRC) UTCs, and Guardian Angel UTCs, for both contingency and MAJCOM 
or above training tasks.  The CAF Aviation SIPT uses computer software to mesh requirements 
and known variables into unit schedules published through the web-based Aviation Schedule.  
The CAF Aviation SIPT also provides the contingency portion of the Aviation Schedule to the 
JFC as the Air Force portion of the GFMAP. 
1.6.  CAF Force Generation Model (CAFFORGEN).  CAF aviation units operate on varying 
deployment and training cycles based on a variety of factors to include component (active or 
reserve), designation as a  high demand/low supply (HD/LS) asset, aerospace control alert 
(ACA) responsibilities, and assignment to the Global Response Force (GRF).  The 
CAFFORGEN model is designed to balance overall force readiness against combatant command 
demand.  CAFFORGEN desired minimum deploy-to-dwell ratios described below in paragraph 
1.6.1. and paragraph 1.6.2. are sufficient to maintain current readiness; greater dwell time is 
required to improve readiness for most aircraft and unit types (Active Component (AC) unit at 
1:4).  The CAFFORGEN model uses 10 USC § 12302 Ready Reserve partial mobilization, and 
10 USC § 12304(b) Selected Reserve and certain Individual Ready Reserve Members 
mobilization authority for preplanned missions, to assure access to Reserve Component (RC) 
forces on a predictable basis. 
1.6.1.  Fighter and Bomber Squadrons.  The CAFFORGEN desired minimum deploy-to-
dwell (D2D) to regain readiness for an Active Component (AC) unit is 1:4 and for an RC 
unit is 1:5 mobilization-to-dwell (equates to a 1:7 D2D for 6-month rotations).  At a 1:3 
D2D, AC forces will retain current readiness.  For those fighter squadrons supporting the 
GRF (normally F 22, F-16CJ, and F-15E), the desired rotational deploy-to-dwell is 1:5 which 
allows those units to assume GRF responsibilities while in dwell at a minimum of 1:2.  For 
fighter and bomber squadrons, the normal deployment tour length is 6 months with variations 
authorized IAW the procedures outlined in Chapter 4. 
1.6.2.  HD/LS Squadrons.  This category includes combat search and rescue/personnel 
recovery (CSAR/PR), command and control (C2), and intelligence, surveillance, and 
reconnaissance squadrons (ISR).  These units routinely deploy on a mission basis as 
independent UTCs and seldom deploy as full squadrons.  The desired minimum UTC deploy-
to-dwell is 1:3 for AC units and 1:5 mobilization to dwell for RC units but due to the unique 
nature of their HD/LS characteristics, the minimum deploy-to-dwell is 1:2 for AC units and 
no less than a 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell for RC units.  Those ISR units operating under Titan 
EXORDs will manage their forces not to exceed 365 days deployed over a rolling two year 
period. (T-2).  
1.7.  Decreasing the Requirement on Mobility Air Forces Air Bridge.  Aircraft rotations for 
maintenance reasons should be small enough to avoid establishing a complete air bridge.  RC 
units will normally rainbow aircraft between two units to support a full 6-month rotation without 
having to establish an extra air bridge. (T-2). 
1.8.  CAF Forces Not Included in the CAFFORGEN Rotational Force Pool.  Forces assigned 
to the Korean Peninsula are part of the Combatant Command Dedicated Force (CDF) and are not 
aligned in the CAFFORGEN rotational force pool. 
6 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Chapter 2 
CAF AVIATION SCHEDULING INTEGRATED PRODUCT TEAM (SIPT) 
2.1.  CAF Aviation SIPT Mission.  The CAF Aviation SIPT is a multi-command organization 
responsible for maintaining the CAFFORGEN Model and developing the Aviation Schedule.  
The CAF Aviation SIPT subject matter expertise is exclusive to scheduling aviation units, 
control and reporting center (CRC) UTCs, or Guardian Angel UTCs. 
2.2.  CAF Aviation SIPT Membership.  The MAJCOM members are Air Combat Command 
(ACC), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), United 
States Air Forces Europe (USAFE), Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), Air 
National Guard (ANG), and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).  Each participating 
MAJCOM appoints a colonel-level representative that is empowered to commit resources and 
make scheduling changes on behalf of their respective MAJCOM director of operations.  The 
CAF Aviation SIPT, through the participating MAJCOM directors of operations, may amend the 
scheduling guidance contained in this instruction as necessary for effective scheduling. 
2.3.  CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat  .  The Headquarters ACC Operations Division 
(ACC/A3O) serves as an Executive Secretariat for the CAF Aviation SIPT with the division 
chief acting as the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary.  The Executive Secretary is 
responsible for coordinating SIPT decision-making.  Concerns identified during the scheduling 
process are arbitrated among team members through the Executive Secretary.  The Executive 
Secretariat is a support branch responsible for maintaining the CAFFORGEN Model, building 
and coordinating the Aviation Schedule, maintaining and improving scheduling software, 
drafting planning and deployment orders for CAF aviation contingency tasking, and developing 
courses of action for various scheduling-related issues to include CAF aviation inputs to the 
GFM and GFMAP processes.  The CAF Aviation SIPT interacts continually via electronic 
means and should normally meet on a semi-annual basis with more frequent meetings as 
required. 
2.4.  MAJCOM Aviation SIPTs.  The participating members maintain command Aviation 
SIPTs (or equivalent) to provide scheduling, tasking, and decision making support for the CAF 
Aviation SIPT.  Normally the MAJCOM representative to the CAF Aviation SIPT should act as 
chief of their respective Aviation SIPT; however, the rules and guidelines for each MAJCOM 
Aviation SIPT are the exclusive purview of that command.  MAJCOMs may supplement this 
instruction to document their procedures. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
7 
Chapter 3 
CAF AVIATION SCHEDULE AND ORDERS PROCESS 
3.1.  Introduction.  The CAF Aviation Schedule is a stand-alone database that is just one of the 
current Consolidated Planning Schedules (CPS).  Details of the CPS construct are contained in 
Attachment 5.  The CAF Aviation Schedule contains the master event schedule of HQ-directed 
or GFMAP-ordered tasking to CAF aviation units.  A complete one-year CAF Aviation Schedule 
is always available in the Aviation CPS.  The Aviation Schedule is accessed through a web-
based CAF scheduling database program available at:  http://cafsipt.langley.af.smil.mil on the 
Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET). 
3.2.  Aviation Scheduling Software.  The Flying Organizations’ Taskable Resource Scheduler 
(FORTRESS) program supports scheduling of those UTCs managed by the CAF Aviation SIPT.  
The aviation scheduling database program was developed as an event deconfliction tool based on 
primary mission assigned aircraft.  Except for CRCs and Guardian Angel UTCs, the aviation 
scheduling software design precludes the addition of aircraft support systems and personnel 
groups into the current aviation database.  Aviation scheduling software consists of three primary 
modules.  The data entry module, accessible only by the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive 
Secretariat, ensures schedule deconfliction for finite aircraft assets.  The web site module 
displays results of aviation schedule queries in both a graphic and tabular format.  The Aviation 
Change Tracking System (ACTS) module supports initial Aviation Schedule development by the 
input of new requirements and provides a means for units or functional managers to request 
subsequent scheduling changes. 
3.3.  Aviation Schedule Development.  The Aviation Schedule uses a dual-track development 
process whereby the contingency and training schedules contained in the Aviation Schedule are 
independently built and approved.  The first track builds a CAF contingency schedule for the 
GFMAP deployment window beginning two years in the future (Chapter 4).  The second track 
builds the CAF exercise and training schedule for the period one year in the future (Chapter 5).  
This dual-track process moves the Aviation Schedule ahead in a six-month increment known as 
an aviation schedule “Build.”  Each aviation schedule Build takes approximately 150 days to 
complete, with established milestones to ensure timely production.  Training Build Milestones 
and Office of Primary Responsibility (OPRs) are listed in Attachment 2.  The aviation schedule 
development process begins by compiling a complete list of CAF aviation requirements.  
Contingency requirements are normally identified through the GFMAP allocation annexes or 
Chairman, Joint Chief of Staff (CJCS) orders.  Service level training, exercise, and test 
requirements are submitted by the responsible functional or program managers.  Joint training 
and test requirements are identified through the CJCS Joint Training Master Schedule.  All 
aviation schedule requirements are submitted using the ACTS module.  When a Build is 
complete, the Aviation Schedule contains a stable and predictable picture of unit tasking. 
3.4.  Aviation Schedule Dates.  All tasking dates shown in the Aviation Schedule are required 
in-place dates.  Transit times are not reflected because of the diversity of travel time from origin 
to destination. 
 
8 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
3.5.  Event Funding.  The Aviation SIPT will consider only funded non-contingency event 
requirements for tasking of active component combat-coded units and for requests to other 
MAJCOMs for aviation support.  Units will not be bound to an event without a funding source to 
cover costs of participation.  Unfunded MAJCOM, MAJCOM-equivalent (e.g., FORSCOM, 
FLEET FORCES COMMAND, MARFORCOM) and above sponsored events should be filled 
on a volunteer basis and may be entered in the Aviation Schedule.  Event OPRs maintain their 
respective event’s fund cite. 
3.6.  Air Force Orders Process.  The ACC Operations Center (ACCOC) functions on behalf of 
COMACC to execute this authority as the single entry and exit point for all operational planning 
and execution activities.  After the GFMAP is published, the ACCOC issues an AF Deployment 
Order or a Prepare-to-Deploy Order (PTDO), as appropriate.   These orders are published on the 
ACCOC GFM and Adaptive Planning and Execution (APEX) website which is located at:  
https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/accocgfmapex/SitePages/Home.aspx. 
Units 
are 
encouraged to visit this site on a regular basis to find the latest official tasking. 
3.6.1.  Contingency Operations.  The Air Force DEPORD supports the Annex A 
(conventional), Annex B (special operations), and Annex C (mobility) GFMAP annexes.  Bi-
weekly modifications are published to address changes or emerging requirements that were 
approved via the SDOB.  Off-cycle, or "Special", SDOBs also generate corresponding 
changes to the GFMAP and AF DEPORD as a result of emergent, time-sensitive 
requirements.  The annual GFMAP base order and bi-weekly modifications constitute a 
deployment order for unit movement. Unit identification within the annexes is only required 
for major combat formations at wing level or above. The ACCOC refines that unit 
information down to squadron equivalent level for aviation units.  Unit level information 
below wing level is also visible in JOPES. Validated deployment requirements in JOPES also 
constitute deployment authority. 
3.6.2.  Operation NOBLE EAGLE Orders.  Operation NOBLE EAGLE (ONE) supports the 
North American Air Defense Command (NORAD) homeland defense mission.  Although 
forces are allocated through the GFMAP, because of the nature of the Total Force solution 
for supporting ONE, unit tasking is codified in an annual ACC ONE DEPORD.  Support for 
the President and National Special Security Events are captured via event-specific EXORDs.  
The ACC ONE DEPORD and EXORDs reside on the ACCOC GFM APEX site 
(Attachment 5). 
3.6.3.  Exercise and Training Deployments.  DEPORDs are required for all OCONUS CJCS 
sponsored and MAJCOM-sponsored/supported exercise deployments supported by ACC, 
AFRC, or ACC-gained (ANG) CAF aviation units.  The respective force providing 
MAJCOM exercise manager will draft DEPORDs for CJCS and MAJCOM-
sponsored/supported exercises.  DEPORDs for other OCONUS training deployments will be 
drafted by the force provider arranging the training (e.g., the ANG would draft DEPORD for 
State Partnership Program training events).  Draft DEPORDs for ACC and ACC-gained CAF 
aviation units will be sent to the ACC Operations Center for approval and release.  Draft 
DEPORDs for AFRC, AFGSC, PACAF, USAFE and AFSOC units will be sent to their 
respective MAJCOM–equivalent Operations Center for approval and release.  ACC/A3TA is 
OPR for all OCONUS air shows and aerial events supported by ACC, AFRC, and ANG 
units.  DEPORDs for these specific events will be prepared by ACC/A3TA, when required, 
as determined by current Aerial Events guidance. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
9 
3.6.4.  Website Alert-Me Notifications.  Users can receive an email notification whenever 
changes are posted to the site by selecting each library individually, then selecting the Alert-
Me notification link.  Subscribers will then be automatically alerted when a change, 
modification or new document has been posted to the website. 
3.7.  Aviation Schedule Historical Database.  The Aviation Schedule is a historical record.  
Categories of Aviation Schedule information will be retained IAW the applicable Air Force 
Records Disposition Schedule Table 10-3, Rule 5, or 6, or Table 10-4, Rule 4. 
10 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Chapter 4 
CAF CONTINGENCY SCHEDULING PROCESS 
4.1.  CAF Resource Availability Pool.  Forces designated in the CAF resource availability pool 
consist of the following: 
4.1.1.  Active Component.  All CAF forces are available up to their full designed operational 
capability (DOC) and aligned IAW the CAFFORGEN model.  Service-directed resource 
actions (e.g., major weapon system modifications, unit conversions, etc.) may preclude 
individual unit availability.  Each AC unit is authorized to rotate up to thirty percent of its 
personnel at approximately the mid-point of their unit deployment.  Waiver requests must be 
submitted from the force providing MAJCOM/A3 to the ACC/A3 for approval. (T-2). 
4.1.2.  Reserve Component.  Under CAFFORGEN, RC availability is planned for use using 
10 USC § 12302 or 10 USC § 12304b mobilization authorities, as appropriate.  This includes 
traditional RC units and active associations.  For budgeting purposes, ACC will plan for RC 
units that are part of a classic association to provide proportional support to the AC lead unit 
based on Table 4.1, with RC associate personnel activated under the appropriate mobilization 
authorities. (T-2). 
4.1.2.1.  RC will be scheduled for rotational deployments in 90-day increments.  Two 
units may rainbow aircraft and equipment to fill a six-month deployment cycle.  Each 
unit is authorized to rotate up to thirty percent of its personnel at approximately the mid-
point of their unit deployment.  All split rotations will be identified during the initial 
Deployment Requirements Manpower Document (DRMD) tailoring process and conform 
to mobilization timing specified in paragraph 4.3.  
4.1.2.2.  Theater security package (TSP), theater security cooperation (TSC), or other 
similar requirements of 90 days or less will be tasked to a single unit.  For requirements 
between 91 and 180 days, two units will be scheduled with personnel rotations at the 
mid-point.  When two units are scheduled, they may rainbow aircraft and equipment for 
the entire period.  Each unit is authorized to rotate up to thirty percent of its personnel at 
approximately the mid-point of their unit deployment. All split rotations will be identified 
during the initial DRMD tailoring process and conform to mobilization timing specified 
in paragraph 4.3. (T-2).  
4.1.2.3.  Waiver Authorities.  RC units requesting exceptions to the above provisions will 
submit justification to the NGB/A3 or AFRC/A3 who will then endorse the request for 
approval by the ACC/A3. (T-2). 
 
 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
11 
Table 4.1.  Percent of Unit (RC)/Tasked Aircraft. 
Percent 
of Unit 
(RC) 
Tasked Aircraft 
<6 
6 -9 
10-14 
15-18 
19-24 
<15 
Ops:  1 
Ops:  1 
Ops:  2 
Ops:  3 
Ops:  4 
15-20 
Ops:  1  
MX:  
10 
Ops:  2  
MX:  
15 
Ops:  3  
MX:  
30 
Ops:  4  
MX:  
45 
Ops:  6  
MX:  
55 
21-30 
Ops:  2  
MX:  
15 
Ops:  3  
MX:  
20 
Ops:  5  
MX:  
40 
Ops:  7  
MX:  
60 
Ops:  9  
MX:  
80 
4.2.  Contingency Scheduling Process  .  The CAF rotational contingency schedule is 
developed in sequential six-month build increments using forces identified in the CAFFORGEN 
Model.  The contingency schedule forecasts two years in advance based on the approved and 
projected GFMAP allocation annexes.  This two-year forecast is necessary to support the 
timelines for GFMAP development.  The contingency scheduling process includes development 
of a Quick Look Contingency Schedule and publication of formal unit tasking in the Aviation 
Schedule. 
4.2.1.  Quick Look Contingency Schedule.  Two years prior to the beginning of each 
rotational period, the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat develops a Quick Look 
Contingency Schedule.  The Quick Look is a compilation of established/projected 
contingency requirements sourced against known rotational commitments.  In developing the 
Quick Look, several factors are examined to balance deployments across the force.  Relevant 
scheduling factors include recent deployment history to include deployment in primary 
versus secondary mission, deployment locations, RC mobilization history, and unit 
conversions.  Once developed, the draft Quick Look is simultaneously loaded into the main 
Aviation Schedule database and released to the CAF Aviation SIPT for coordination. 
4.2.2.  Quick Look Coordination and Approval.  During the coordination process, all CAF 
Aviation SIPT members will closely examine projected unit tasking and highlight 
disconnects with detailed rationale for changes, to include alternate solutions using available 
forces.  The CAF Aviation SIPT chiefs are empowered to resolve any issues that arise during 
the coordination process.  After all recommended changes are incorporated, the contingency 
schedule should be forwarded in staff summary format for final MAJCOM approval.  If 
MAJCOM objections arise that cannot be jointly resolved, the outstanding issues will be 
highlighted in the final approval package that is forwarded to COMACC for decision.  All 
MAJCOM objections must be stated in terms of the Global Force Management and 
Implementation Guidance (GFMIG) risk categories.  For CAF Aviation SIPT purposes, force 
management risk is the most likely category.  Only supported commanders can identify 
operational risk (e.g., ACC for ONE, PACAF for Korean Operations Plan (OPLAN) support, 
etc.). (T-2). 
4.2.3.  GFMAP Development.  Each year, the GFMB validates for sourcing the projected 
rotational requirements submitted by the combatant commands (CCMD) for the current fiscal 
12 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
year plus two (e.g., Mar’15 for FY17).  The approved CAF AS is cross-referenced with the 
validated CCMD requirements and matching nominations are then submitted via the Joint 
Capabilities Requirements Manager (JCRM) as a Service nomination based on COMACC’s 
delegated authorities from SecAF.  Requirements that exceed Service capability have official 
non-concurs entered into JCRM.  The JFC then takes these nominations and compiles them 
into a GFMAP Base Order for the subject FY.  This Base Order is then coordinated through 
the CCMDs, GFMB and JCS before forwarding to SecDef for approval before the start of the 
subject FY via the SecDef Orders Book (SDOB). 
4.2.4.  New Contingency Requirements.  Contingency requirements identified after approval 
of the GFMAP are submitted as a Request for Capability (RFC) or Request for Forces (RFF) 
from the combatant commander to the Joint Staff.  If the RFC/RFF is validated by the Joint 
Staff, the CAF Aviation SIPT uses the approved CAFFORGEN alignment to source the 
additional capability, conduct a risk assessment, update the Aviation Schedule, and obtain 
COMACC approval for submission to the JFC on behalf of the SecAF. 
4.2.5.  GFMAP Changes.  The GFMAP is far from a static document and changes are staffed 
via the GFMAP change process and approved in the SDOB.  Most changes occur when 
CCMDs submit a change request (CR) via JCRM to the Joint Staff.  These are then 
coordinated by the JFC/JFP with the Services.  The CAF SIPT Executive Secretariat 
coordinates any CRs with the affected force provider(s).  If all are in concurrence, the change 
is ultimately reflected in a numbered GFMAP mod.  Any non-concur is sent back to the 
requesting CCMD who has the option to request adjudication via the formal JCS process. 
4.3.  CAF Mobilization Process.  Due to SecDef-mandated force management level constraints 
in some AORs and to DoD-wide programmed funding restrictions, the standard UTCs for most 
aviation packages normally include more personnel than are authorized for deployment.  As a 
result, most aviation packages require tailoring of the DRMD to reach the imposed or funded 
manpower limit.  This tailoring process impacts the mobilization process and timelines described 
in AFI 10-401 Air Force Operations Planning and Execution which was designed primarily for 
agile combat support UTCs.  However, the overall goal remains to have mobilization orders cut 
NLT 210 days before activation.  The following timelines apply to CAF rotational mobilization 
packages. 
4.3.1.  M-375 Days.  ACCOC sends DRMD to NGB mob cell or AFRC/FGC for tailoring.  
During the tailoring process, individual units should pre-identify individual personnel data 
for each DRMD line in order to be prepared to meet mobilization worksheet timelines. 
4.3.2.  M-345 Days.  NGB or AFRC returns DRMD to ACCOC for coordination with 
supported AOR. 
4.3.3.  M-335 Days.  Supported AOR returns DRMD to ACCOC. 
4.3.4.  M-330 Days.  ACCOC sends draft mobilization worksheet to NGB or AFRC/FGC for 
inclusion of individual personnel data. 
4.3.5.  M-285 Days.  NGB Mob Cell or AFRC/FGC returns completed mobilization 
worksheet to ACCOC. 
4.3.6.  M-255 Days.  ACCOC submits completed mobilization package to AF/A3OD. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
13 
4.3.7.  M-215 Days.  AF/A3OD secures SAF/MR mobilization approval and transmits 
mobilization message to ACCOC. 
4.3.8.  M-210 Days.  ACCOC issues activation message to affected units. 
4.4.  RC Volunteerism in-lieu-of Mobilization.  The CAFFORGEN model supports RC 
members using voluntary activation under 10 USC § 12301(d) Reserve Components at 
execution.  RC units are authorized to use qualified volunteers from other units but such 
volunteers are not protected from being mobilized with their parent unit inside normal dwell if 
their unit is subsequently tasked. 
4.5.  RC Deployment Extensions.  IAW CJCSM 3130.06A GFM Allocation and Planning 
Procedures, combatant commanders are authorized to request a deployment extension up to 30 
days without SecDef approval if approved by the Service Force Provider.  ACC will coordinate 
all combatant command extension requests with the RC command (NGB/A3 or AFRC/FGC, as 
appropriate) before forwarding to HAF for approval of mobilization extension. (T-2). 
4.6.  CAF Pre-Deployment Spin-Up Training.  Flying unit attendance at a pre-deployment 
training exercise is mandatory for GFM tasked deployments.  Fighter and bomber pre-
deployment spin-up exercises will be scheduled during CAF SIPT Training Builds, i.e., 12-18 
months prior to an event.  Deliberate scheduling of unit spin-up exercises during Training Builds 
provides deploying units a stable advance training phase and reduces scheduling turbulence for 
other flying units.  Flying units will complete required pre-deployment spin-up training within 
nine months of deployment. (T-2). 
4.6.1.  Venues.  The following exercise venues provide flying units the appropriate spin up 
training in order to effectively prepare units to support CCDR objectives. 
4.6.1.1.  Units tasked to deploy in support of a CCMD TSP/TSC will attend RED FLAG 
(RF)-Nellis or Alaska. (T-2). 
4.6.1.2.  Units tasked to provide CAS (all theaters, any operation) will attend GREEN 
FLAG (GF)-East or West. (T-2). 
4.6.1.3.  Units tasked to primarily support Special Operations Forces will attend a GF 
(primary option) or a USSOCOM-sponsored exercise; or a Joint National Training Center 
(JNTC)-accredited exercise. (T-2). 
4.6.1.4.  All other units tasked for non-CAS GFM taskings will participate in a RF 
(primary option) or a JNTC-accredited exercise. (T-2). 
4.6.2.  Funding/Mandays.  ACC, AFRC, and ACC-gained flying units attending RF-Nellis 
and GF-East/West exercises for pre-deployment spin-ups will be funded by ACC.  Mandays 
will also be provided for ACC-gained units.  USAFE and PACAF will provide funding for 
their assigned, gained, and RC associate units. (T-2). 
4.6.3.  Waivers.  ACC/A3 is the waiver/approval authority for substitute options for pre-
deployment exercise participation.  Waivers will be submitted at least nine months prior to a 
unit’s deployment.  When requesting a waiver, provide justification for not participating in 
the primary option exercise and identify mitigation efforts to properly prepare the unit for 
deployment.  ACC units will send waiver requests to ACC/A3O.  Non-ACC units will send 
waiver requests through their MAJCOM/A3 or NGB/A3, as applicable, to ACC/A3O. (T-2). 
14 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
4.7.  Contingency Scheduling Standards.  The CAF Aviation SIPT uses a series of standards to 
guide the scheduling of units in support of rotational contingency operations. 
4.7.1.  GFMAP-ordered tasks are prioritized by the GFMP and take precedence over all other 
events. 
4.7.2.  Contingency assignments are based on a unit’s alignment in the CAFFORGEN model.  
Reaching forward to future deployment windows for other than PTDO requirements should 
not occur unless the SecDef has approved a surge as defined in AFPD 10-4. 
4.7.3.  Contingency requirements may be worldwide and can include OCONUS units 
deploying to the CONUS in support of homeland security missions. 
4.7.4.  Squadrons normally are not scheduled for split operations without approval of 
COMACC.  For scheduling purposes, supporting home station, non-contingency operations 
such as ACA, while conducting a simultaneous GFMAP ordered deployment, is not 
considered split operations. 
4.7.5.  Units should plan to deploy IAW their CAFFORGEN alignment unless special 
circumstances (e.g., unit conversions) warrant otherwise.  Units not specifically tasked must 
remain ready to respond within their DOC statement response criteria. (T-2). 
4.7.6.  The task start and task end dates listed in the Aviation Schedule are based on in-
theater arrival dates and mission termination dates.  Airlift, air refueling, and country 
clearance restrictions will generally extend the contingency commitment beyond the 
scheduled deployment dates shown in the Aviation Schedule.  The Air Operations Squadron 
(AOS) will attempt to minimize travel impacts, especially on RC units. (T-2). 
4.7.7.  RC units may volunteer to support emergent requirements under 10 USC § 12301(d) 
so as not to accrue dwell and interrupt their next scheduled deployment cycle.  However, 
fiscal constraints may preclude the ability to use the RC unless supplemental funding is 
provided or the requirement is of a very short duration. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
15 
Chapter 5 
EXERCISE AND TRAINING SCHEDULING PROCESS 
5.1.  Unit Exercise and Training Availability.  Exercise and training requirements are 
scheduled based on individual units’ positions in the CAFFORGEN model. 
5.1.1.  Basic Training Phase.  This is the four-month window immediately following a unit’s 
deployment.  It includes a two-week recovery phase that begins upon redeployment to home 
station for units that supported contingency operations.  The scheduling focus of the basic 
training phase is the recovery of aircrew skills that may have diminished while deployed, 
maintenance reconstitution of aircraft, and an orderly transfer of personnel into and out of the 
unit.  Units that were not tasked for contingency operations will not have a basic training 
phase.  Units that deployed are not normally tasked to support off-station exercises or 
training events during this phase.  However, units may be tasked to support training events 
from home station or may volunteer for off-station training events that enhance their overall 
unit training.  Although designated basic training for CAF scheduling purposes, units are 
expected to be ready to support the full Range of Military Operations, if required, within 
their designated DOC statement response timing. 
5.1.2.  Advanced Training Phase.  The advanced training phase immediately follows a unit’s 
basic training phase and ends two months prior to the start of the next GFMAP ordered 
deployment.  The advanced training phase focuses on opportunities to engage in CONUS and 
OCONUS joint, service and MAJCOM exercise and training events in preparation for future 
contingency requirements such as Red Flag and Green Flag.  Events also include other inter-
Service exercises, intra-Service exercises, proficiency improvement events, tests, 
demonstrations and aerial events. 
5.2.  Exercise and Training Scheduling Process  .  The exercise and training schedule is built 
in six-month increments using a five-phase process designed to provide stability, predictability, 
and oversight.  The exercise and training schedule matches units having combat coded aircraft in 
their advanced training phase with exercise and training requirements submitted in the window 
12 to 18 months in advance.  When the Training Build is complete, units normally have a 
minimum of 6 to 12 months of notification for each scheduled event.  Units having training 
coded aircraft (e.g., FTUs, AGRS units) or test coded aircraft (e.g., TES units) are not tasked by 
the Aviation SIPT to avoid disruption of their unique missions. 
5.2.1.  Call for Requirements (CFR).  Requirements are established by program or functional 
managers and submitted to the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat during the CFR that 
occurs in the first two weeks of each build cycle.  All requirements are submitted using the 
web-based ACTS.  Commands sponsoring events can pre-source from their own forces 
during their CFR submission.  Such pre-sourcing is normally accepted without change unless 
the forces are needed for higher-priority CAF-wide requirements.  Due to the volunteer 
nature of Reserve Component (RC) forces, the CAF Aviation SIPT does not unilaterally 
schedule RC forces.  As a result, ANG and AFRC must identify units wishing to volunteer 
for training events during their CFR submission.  Unit level requirements that could impact 
their ability to be tasked are also entered into the database to provide for minimum schedule 
disruption.  Examples include projected runway repair projects or significant aircraft 
16 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
maintenance programs.  A requirement generated by another Service or a non-CAF Aviation 
SIPT command (e.g., support for an Air Force Material Command (AFMC) test) requires a 
staff agency from one of the CAF Aviation SIPT commands to sponsor and submit the 
request on their behalf.  The sponsorship arrangement provides visibility for a CAF 
headquarters agency to ensure the requirement is compatible with existing programs.  To 
enhance a primary objective of stability and predictability, requirements identified during the 
regular build cycle receive sourcing priority. 
5.2.2.  Exercise and Training Schedule Development.  After the CFR phase is complete, the 
CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat develops a draft exercise and training schedule 
using available forces in their advanced training phase, scheduling standards delineated 
below, and event deconfliction priorities (Attachment 3).  Nevertheless, scheduling 
decisions, which appear contrary to established guidance, may be necessary to support 
unique requirements or transient priorities.  Once the draft schedule is complete, sourced 
events are loaded into the Aviation Schedule database.  Unsourced events, or events not 
sourced to the desired level, are placed on the Unfilled Requirements List (URL).  An event 
remains on the URL until a unit is sourced to support, the functional manager rescinds the 
requirement, or the date of the event passes.  The URL provides a vehicle for advertising 
unfilled events that units, including those from other Services, can volunteer to support. 
5.2.3.  Initial Executability Review (IER).  Once the exercise and training schedule is loaded 
into the Aviation Schedule database, it is released to the CAF Aviation SIPT members and 
event OPRs for executability review.  Each command develops internal processes for 
reviewing the draft Aviation Schedule.  CAF Aviation Scheduling is a top-down process.  
The primary purpose of the IER phase is to assess executability of the draft Aviation 
Schedule and not to highlight unit exercise and training “desires.”  CAF Aviation SIPT 
members and event OPRs submit recommended changes and executability issues to the CAF 
Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary via the ACTS Aviation Change Request (ACR).  Once all 
changes/issues have been submitted, the Executive Secretariat adjusts the draft Aviation 
Schedule accordingly. 
5.2.4.  Final Executability Review (FER).  The FER process follows the same steps and has 
the same purpose as the IER.  However, the focus of the FER is intentionally narrow, looking 
only at those issues identified for potential changes during the IER.  Once all changes/issues 
have been submitted, the Executive Secretariat adjusts the draft Aviation Schedule 
accordingly and builds a MAJCOM review package. 
5.2.5.  MAJCOM Aviation SIPT Coordination.  The MAJCOM review package provides 
metric data on results of the Executability Reviews, identifies submitted issues that were 
disapproved by the Executive Secretary, and highlights any new tasking.  CAF MAJCOM 
Aviation SIPT members review the schedule for supportability, and determine acceptability 
of unfilled events.  Unresolved training issues may be submitted for general officer review 
before the Aviation Schedule Build is submitted for COMACC approval.  General officer 
review is normally at the A3 level.  The MAJCOM Aviation SIPT representative is expected 
to get the appropriate MAJCOM approval for the COMACC review package. 
5.2.6.  COMACC Review and Approval.  The Executive Secretariat should refine the review 
package, incorporating all views of other CAF Aviation SIPT members after the MAJCOM 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
17 
Aviation SIPT coordination. The MAJCOM-approved schedule review package is then 
forwarded for approval to COMACC in the role of CAF force provider. 
5.3.  Exercise and Training Scheduling Standards.  Advanced training events are tasked based 
on the units’ DOC statement and their next GFMAP ordered tasking.  Every attempt is made to 
provide relevant training throughout the advanced phase with events focused on the next 
deployment tasking concentrated near the end of the advanced phase.  Nevertheless, scheduling 
decisions that appear contrary to this flow may be necessary to support unique requirements and 
transient priorities.  Syllabus training and joint events are often not compatible with the expected 
contingency schedule.  Some inter-Service training requirements are based on pre-existing 
agreements that are also contrary to a graduated training flow. 
5.3.1.  CAF pre-deployment spin-up training (paragraph 4.6.) has the highest training 
scheduling priority.  Units normally will be scheduled to attend a preparation exercise in the 
final months of their advanced training phase, but no earlier than nine months prior to 
deployment.  The RC verifies their intention to participate when submitting their build 
requirements. 
5.3.2.  To the maximum extent possible, OCONUS units participating in a Flag exercise are 
scheduled for Weapons School support, Combat Hammer, Combat Archer or other events of 
their choice while deployed to the Continental United States (CONUS). OCONUS units 
normally are limited to no more than 35 consecutive days of stateside participation.  
OCONUS MAJCOMS verify their intention to participate in these various events during the 
Training Build. 
5.3.3.  Units normally will not be tasked to support off-station exercises or training events 
following a GFMAP ordered deployment.  However, a unit may be tasked in the last 30 days 
of its basic training phase for must fill events, as approved by the CAF Executive Secretary 
or designated CAF SIPT representative.  Concurrent or sequential events at the same location 
are considered a single tasking. 
5.3.4.  All squadrons from a multiple squadron wing should not be deployed for exercises or 
training at the same time.  Any remaining non-deployed squadrons may be scheduled to 
support exercise and training requirements from homestation. 
5.3.5.  A unit should have a minimum of 10 days between off-station deployments when the 
deployment includes significant maintenance package support. 
5.3.6.  Deployments to Nellis AFB should not exceed a cumulative total of 35 days per 
squadron during any rolling 90-day window. 
5.3.7.  Units should not be scheduled for more than 4 off-station training deployments 
requiring significant maintenance package support during any rolling 90-day window.  
Concurrent or sequential events at the same deployed location count as a single deployment. 
5.3.8.  Units may volunteer to support training or exercise events within their assigned AOR 
during their deployment preparation and deployment period provided they are able to meet 
DOC statement timing as well as any potential contingency tasking. 
 
 
18 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
5.3.9.  Volunteer participation does not supersede any Aviation Schedule tasked event.  
When a scheduling conflict develops between a previously approved tasking and a unit’s 
voluntary event participation, the voluntary event participation may be disapproved or 
cancelled. 
5.3.10.  Unit-level events, such as an Operational Readiness Exercise (ORE), community 
appreciation day, or a unit-funded Flying Training Deployments (FTD) may be added to the 
Aviation Schedule after the applicable build is complete.  Inclusion of FTDs on the Aviation 
Schedule is recommended as it provides MAJCOM leadership at all levels visibility on the 
tempo of CAF Aviation assets and awareness of unit-level support to other services. 
5.3.11.  Test requirements using 53 Wing assets are scheduled via the 53 Wing Electronic 
Project Order rather than the Aviation Schedule. 
5.3.12.  Classic associate wings may identify 1 ORE per quarter for schedule deconfliction to 
allow for the limited availability of weekend participation by RC personnel during their 
scheduled unit training assembly.  The classic associate wing ORE date needs to be 
submitted during the Call for Requirements, otherwise the ORE will be scheduled in 
accordance with 5.3.10 above. 
5.3.13.  Distributed Mission Operations (DMO) events, e.g., Virtual Flag, are not 
deconflicted from aircraft events by the CAF SIPT.  The aviation schedule (CPS) is an 
aircraft based database and does not track personnel numbers in simulation/DMO events. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
19 
Chapter 6 
AVIATION SCHEDULE DATABASE MANAGEMENT 
6.1.  Aviation Schedule Management Functions.  There are four primary management 
functions that occur after a contingency or training schedule build has been approved:  adding a 
requirement, deleting a requirement, changing a requirement, or changing specific unit 
participation. 
6.2.  Changes to the Aviation Schedule  .  After the Aviation Schedule has been approved, new 
events may arise, existing event requirements or priorities may change, or a unit's ability to 
execute assigned tasks may change.  Requesting relief from a task after the Aviation Schedule 
has been officially approved causes an exercise/training plan disruption that should be avoided.  
CAF Aviation SIPT members will request changes affecting their respective units using 
procedures established by their MAJCOM Aviation SIPT and this instruction.  The affected 
program/event manager, or unit, or the MAJCOM Aviation SIPT POC will initiate requested 
changes to the Aviation Schedule.  All requested aviation changes to the Aviation Schedule will 
be submitted through ACTS.  The ACTS system provides cradle-to-grave tracking of each issue.  
ACTS automatically assigns an ACR tracking number that is permanently associated with each 
request.  These procedures ensure all affected parties contribute to a final resolution and receive 
a clear understanding of how the ultimate decision was determined.  Changes to GFMAP-
ordered requirements will be handled IAW procedures in CJCSM 3130.06A and documented 
through an ACR submitted by the CAF SIPT Executive Secretariat. 
6.3.  ACR Processing.  All ACRs are processed in the same manner. Timely ACR responses are 
critical in providing clarity to the overall CAF aviation schedule and enables events to be 
sourced to the maximum extent possible per this instruction’s scheduling standards. 
6.3.1.  Assigning Change Request.  Upon receipt, the change request should be assigned to a 
CAF SIPT Executive Secretariat action officer for resolution with the appropriate event 
manager, MDS functional manager, affected unit(s), or MAJCOM SIPT POC. 
6.3.1.1.  Training Build ACRs.  Due to timeline constraints, wing SIPT schedulers, event 
managers, and Mission Design Series (MDS) Functional Managers, will provide final 
coordination within 7 days of initial receipt of IER, FER, and MAJCOM review ACRs.  
MAJCOM SIPTS will provide final coordination within 10 days of initial receipt of 
training build review ACRs. (T-2). 
6.3.1.2.  Schedule Maintenance ACRs (submitted outside the training build).  Wing SIPT 
schedulers, event managers, and MDS functional managers will provide final ACR 
coordination within 14 days of initial ACR receipt.  MAJCOM SIPTs will provide final 
ACR coordination within 21 days of initial ACR receipt. (T-2). 
6.3.1.3.  In the event the ACR timelines above are not adhered to, the CAF Executive 
Secretary or designated CAF SIPT representative will notify the applicable MAJCOM 
SIPT lead or ACC wing leadership for resolution. (T-2). 
6.3.2.  Analysis and Recommendation.  During this phase, background data is gathered and a 
recommendation is developed and forwarded to all interested parties.  If consensus is 
obtained, the change is entered into the Aviation Schedule. 
20 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
6.3.3.  Resolving Change Requests without a Consensus.   If a consensus is not obtained, the 
Executive Secretary consolidates opposing views and forwards them to the involved 
MAJCOMs for General Officer resolution.  Based upon the final resolution, the Executive 
Secretary authorizes any change to the Aviation Schedule. 
6.4.  MAJCOM Aviation Schedule (CPS) Inputs.  MAJCOM SIPTs will submit all known 
MAJCOM exercise/training requirements during training builds (paragraph 5.2).  SIPTs will 
submit ACRs for add-on MAJCOM events a minimum of six months prior to exercise/training 
execution, to include exercises at the ANG’s Combat Readiness Training Centers (CRTCs).  
ANG and AFRC SIPTs will ensure all OCONUS exercise deployments are reflected on the 
Aviation Schedule, e.g., State-Partnership Program (SPP) deployments.  Inclusion of MAJCOM 
events, to include ANG/unit-funded FTDs, in the Aviation CPS provides the CAF SIPT and 
leadership at all levels visibility on the tempo of CAF Aviation assets and provides historical 
aviation CPS data for higher headquarters directed analysis. 
6.5.  Directed Tasking.  Periodically, event/program managers submit out-of-cycle, high priority 
event requirements outside of the Aviation Schedule Build period.  Similarly, previously 
submitted unfilled requirements may be reprioritized as "must fill" events.  When a unit is not 
readily available within the tasking guidelines of this AFI and no volunteer unit is available, or if 
unresolved scheduling conflicts occur, a General Officer decision may be pursued to direct a 
unit(s) to participate.  The respective event/program manager is responsible for preparing a 
coordinated staff package for General Officer decision.  The event/program manager will keep 
the CAF SIPT Executive Secretariat apprised of the General Officer’s decision. 
 
MARK C. NOWLAND, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
21 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
10 USC § 12302, Ready Reserve, 31 December 2011 
10 USC § 12304(b) Selected Reserve and certain Individual Ready Reserve Members, 31 
December 2011 
10 USC § 12301(d), Reserve Components Generally, 28 October, 2004 
CJCSM 3130.06, Global Force Management Allocation Policies and Procedures, 28 March 
2014 
CJCSM 3122.02D, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES) Vol. III Time 
Phased Force and Deployment Data, 17 March 2011 
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006 
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy 
(AEFPP), 30 April 2009 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 679, Air Force Publication Compliance Item Waiver Request/Approval 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AC—Active Component 
ACA—Aerospace Control Alert 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
ACCOC—Air Combat Command Operations Center 
ACR—Aviation Change Request 
ACTS—Aviation Change Tracking System 
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force 
AEFPP—Air and Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy 
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command 
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command 
22 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command 
ANG—Air National Guard 
AOR—Area of Responsibility 
AOS—Air Operations Squadron 
APEX—Adaptive Planning and Execution 
AS—Aviation Schedule 
C2—Command and Control 
CAF—Combat Air Forces 
CAFFORGEN—CAF Force Generation Model 
CAS—Close Air Support 
CCDR—Combatant Commander 
CCMD—Combatant Command 
CDF—Combatant Command Dedicated Force 
CFR—Call for Requirements 
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff 
COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command 
CONUS—Continental United States 
CPS—Consolidated Planning Schedule 
CSAR/PR—Combat Search and Rescue/Personnel Recovery 
CSAF—Chief of Staff, Air Force 
DEPORD—Deployment Order 
DOC—Designed Operational Capability 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DRMD—Deployment Requirements Manpower Document 
ENDEX—End of Exercise 
ETL—Estimated Tour Length 
FER—Final Executability Review 
FGC—Force Generation Center 
FORTRESS—Flying Organizations’ Taskable Resource Scheduler 
FTD—Flying Training Deployment 
FTN—Force Tracking Number 
GFM—Global Force Management 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
23 
GFMAP—Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
GFMB—Global Force Management Board 
HD/LS—High Demand/Low Supply 
IER—Initial Executability Review 
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
JFC—Joint Force Coordinator 
JFP—Joint Force Provider 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
MDS—Mission Design Series 
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
NORAD—North American Air Defense Command 
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States 
ONE—Operation Noble Eagle 
OPLAN—Operations Plan 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
ORE—Operational Readiness Evaluation 
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces 
PTDO—Prepare-to-Deploy Order 
RC—Reserve Component 
RFC—Request for Capability 
RFF—Request for Forces 
ROMO—Range of Military Operations 
SDOB—Secretary of Defense Orders Book 
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force 
SecDef—Secretary of Defense 
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network 
SIPT—Scheduling Integrated Product Team 
STARTEX—Start of Exercise 
URL—Unfilled Requirements List 
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe 
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command 
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command 
24 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
UTC—Unit Type Code 
Terms 
ACC Aviation SIPT Chief—The Colonel-level leader of the ACC Aviation SIPT, usually the 
Chief of Operations Division.  The ACC Aviation SIPT Chief is normally dual-hatted as the 
CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary. 
Air Bridge—The process of establishing staging bases and aerial tankers to support deployment 
of CAF fighter and/or bomber aircraft. 
Aviation Schedule—The master schedule of events for the Combat Air Forces; maintained in 
electronic form, the schedule is created, maintained, and updated using the aviation scheduling 
software program located on the classified SIPRNET. 
Aviation Schedule Build—Used as a noun in the Aviation Scheduling context, it is the periodic 
scheduling package that commits Combat Air Forces in 6-month blocks of time.  Each build 
contains contingency taskings 20-24 months in the future and training events 6-12 months in the 
future. 
CAF Aviation Scheduling Cycle—A cycle of time consisting of training, preparation, and 
deployment periods.  For CAF aviation scheduling purposes, the training period is further 
segmented into three phases:  recovery (if required), basic training, and advanced training. 
CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary—The Colonel-level leader of the CAF Aviation 
SIPT, usually the Chief of the Operations Division (ACC). 
Combat Air Forces—Air forces that are directly engaged in combat operations.  Examples 
include fighters; bombers; command and control; combat search and rescue; and intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft, and the forces that operate and support them. 
Combatant Command Dedicated Force—The minimum set of forces that are required forward 
in each combatant command and that will not be considered for reallocation except for major 
OPLAN execution in another AOR. 
Deployment Eligibility Period—The recurring time period where forces are either deployed or 
at home station waiting employment tasking.  Those forces remaining at home station will 
continue routine training tasks to remain mission ready for any potential tasking. 
Event OPR—Typically an individual at a MAJCOM who manages all details of a particular 
event. 
Force Tracking Number—The Force Tracking Number (FTN) is a serialized 11-character 
alphanumeric reference number assigned by a supported CCDR to each force capability 
requirement requested through the allocation process in either the annual submission 
requirements or as an emergent requirement.   Force requirements and serialized FTNs are 
entered into the GFMAP via JCRM. 
FORTRESS—A scheduling information management system; designed to support the CAF 
Aviation SIPT; leverages commercially available software development tools to perform 
scheduling, tracking, and reporting for CAF aviation assets to build the Aviation Schedule; 
provides remote, real-time, read-only access to the Aviation Schedule database through 
SIPRNET; system resides at HQ ACC. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
25 
Global Force Management Allocation Plan (GFMAP)—A SecDef-approved document that 
allocates specific units to support rotational requirements of the combatant commanders. 
High Demand/Low Supply (HD/LS)—Weapon systems that possess specialized attributes or 
capabilities that have historically been called upon by combatant commanders to execute 
operations at a rate that degrades their near- to mid-term readiness.  The primary differentiating 
characteristics of these assets are the unique capabilities and an unusually high demand relative 
to availability in the force. 
Mobility Air Forces (MAF—)—Air Force Forces that provide airlift, air refueling, special air 
mission, and aeromedical evacuation. 
Preparation Period—A two-month period that begins 60-days prior to  GFMAP ordered 
employment and focuses on preparations specific to scheduled deployments, theater specific 
training, and any anticipated tasking.  The Aviation Schedule schedulers will reduce taskings at 
this time to allow the unit to concentrate on its preparation tasks. 
RC Rainbow—A grouping of several Reserve Component units to fill a single event.  This can 
be any combination of personnel, aircraft, or equipment. 
Recovery Phase—A two-week phase immediately after deployment that allows redeploying 
units to reunite with families and to complete hot wash/lessons learned reports.  Units that do not 
deploy do not receive a Recovery Phase. 
Rotational Tasking—The CAF uses rotational tasking to support known steady state 
contingency commitments with unit deployment intervals sequenced to provide continuous 
coverage.  A deploying squadron, with the exception of some ISR and C2 enabler squadrons, can 
support a single requirement at one location or, based on prepositioned support, several 
requirements at multiple locations. 
Split Operations—Flying operations conducted from two or more deployed locations.  For 
scheduling purposes, conducting flying operations from home station and a single deployed 
location is not considered split operations. 
Training Period—The time period in a unit’s scheduling cycle immediately following the a 
unit’s contingency deployment and ending two months prior to their next planned contingency 
deployment.  The first 4-month portion of this period is structured to regain lost currencies, 
mission qualifications, and upgrades and may be shortened by 15 days to enable a recovery 
phase for deploying forces.  The latter months focus on advanced training that allows a 
reconstitution of core competencies and the opportunity to train as a unit through scheduled 
exercise and training events. 
 
26 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Attachment 2 
TRAINING BUILD TIMELINE 
Figure A2.1.  Training Build Timeline. 
Tan = CAF & MAJCOM Actions 
Blue = Significant  Notices Changes 
DAY  
OPR 
REQUIREMENT 
1 
ACC/A3O 
Start Call for Requirements (CFR) 
Release CFR message asking for validated/funded CAF requirements from 
ACC Event OPRs and MAJCOM SIPTs via the ACTS CFR link. 
Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page stating the Call for 
Requirements has been released. 
14 
Event 
OPRs, 
FMs, 
MAJCOM 
Aviation 
SIPTs 
End CFR 
 
Submit validated/funded requirements via the ACTS system. 
ACC/A3O 
Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page to close the Call for 
Requirements 
40 
Start Initial Executability Review (IER) 
Freeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule. 
Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page. 
Release CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretary IER message with the 
Training/Exercise Aviation Schedule to the ACC Wings and to the CAF 
Aviation SIPT, i.e., ACC Event OPRs/ Functional Managers (FM) and 
MAJCOM SIPT Schedulers 
53 
End IER 
Unfreeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule. 
Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page. 
Event 
OPRs, 
FMs, 
Submit IER comments via ACTS Aviation Change Requests (ACRs).  
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
27 
MAJCOM 
Aviation 
SIPTs 
67 
ACC/A3O Complete work on Initial Executability Reclamas 
74 
ACC/A3O 
Start Final Executability Review (FER) 
Freeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule in preparation for the 
Final Executability Review. 
Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page. 
Release FER Review Message. ACC Wings, Event OPRs/ Functional 
Managers review scheduled tasks and may request the CAF SIPT to elevate 
concerns for general officer decision.  
87 
Event 
OPRs, 
FMs, 
MAJCOM 
Aviation 
SIPTs 
End Final Executability Review 
 
Submit FER comments (by exception) via ACTS 
ACC/A3O 
Unfreeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule. 
Update the Aviation Schedule Notices page. 
FINAL TRAINING BUILD APPROVAL PACKAGE COORDINATION 
101 
ACC/A3O 
Release CAF Aviation SIPT Training/Exercise Aviation Schedule 
Approval Package for MAJCOM/CC approval. 
Freeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule. 
115 
MAJCOM 
Aviation 
SIPTs 
Submit CAF MAJCOM/CC approval of the Training/Exercise Aviation 
Schedule to the SIPT Executive Secretariat. 
129 
ACC/A3O 
Release final Training/Exercise Aviation Schedule Package for COMACC 
approval of the Training Aviation Schedule. 
150 
Unfreeze the Build portion of the Aviation Schedule. 
28 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Receive COMACC approval of the Training Aviation Schedule.  
 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
29 
Attachment 3 
CAF AVIATION SIPT EVENT DECONFLICTION PRIORITIES 
Figure A3.1.  CAF Aviation SIPT Event Deconfliction Priorities. 
Priority* 
Event 
1 
Contingencies, Operations 
2 
Contingency Spin-up Events 
3 
Inspector General (IG) Inspections,  
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Evaluations 
4 
Weapon System Evaluation Program (WSEP),  
Close Air Support (CAS) exercises and training 
5 
USAF Weapons School 
6 
Service and Joint Exercises 
7 
Tests, experimentation, demonstration,  and aerial events 
8 
Unit-generated events, e.g., FTDs and OREs 
* Priorities are not an inviolate sequential order assigning tasks.  The priorities provide a basic 
reference for event deconfliction. 
 
30 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Attachment 4 
CONSOLIDATED PLANNING SCHEDULES (CPS) 
A4.1.  Introduction  .  The CPS is a collection of schedules for various dissimilar AF 
communities.  CPS provides users with a common access point for viewing schedules while also 
providing schedulers with independent management ability. Except for CAF Aviation, 
participation in the CPS is voluntary. 
A4.2.  CAF Aviation SIPT Facilitation  .  Administration of the CPS web site is a peripheral 
duty of the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat facilitated by its information technology 
function.  The CAF Aviation SIPT has full management and scheduling responsibility for only 
the CAF Aviation Schedule portion of the CPS. The CAF Aviation SIPT does not provide 
scheduling functions for the aggregate CPS. 
A4.3.  Schedule Modules Methodology  .  The modular approach involves the establishment of 
independent data structures for each unique entity (i.e., aviation, IW Aggressors, DATCALS, 
Space Aggressors, DCGS, military working dogs, etc.).  The individual schedules are capable of 
stand-alone management and operation.  The modular design with separate and distinct schedule 
coordination management is the standard used for all schedules requesting CPS inclusion.  The 
modular structure accommodates the desire to access various schedules from a single web site 
reference point. 
A4.3.1.  The modular approach allows program managers to maintain control and 
responsibility for their own data, and provides for schedule management independent from 
other schedules.  Program managers are permitted to adapt their unique scheduling processes 
independent from constraints of other communities’ systems.  Functional managers may 
choose an appropriate mechanism necessary to process schedule changes.  The mechanism 
can range from an automated system with rigid, detailed processes or a simple phone call, 
email method. 
A4.3.2.  Separate data maintains the integrity of each community’s schedule.  The modular 
approach does not impact outside agencies currently using the aviation database.  Users only 
concerned with aviation and those data mining the aviation database will not be confused 
with additional material. 
A4.3.3.  Each schedule module is named according to the information it contains to 
accurately identify and reference a particular schedule. The Aviation Schedule may be 
referenced as the “Aviation CPS”. 
A4.3.4.  Users (wings, staff agencies, etc.) have a single point of access to multiple 
schedules.  Schedule viewing access is provided through the common web site. 
A4.3.4.1.  A SIPRNET web page serves as a central point for hosting functional manager 
provided links for each new schedule. 
A4.3.4.2.  The classification of schedule data makes an unclassified web site impractical.  
Only the SIPRNET can provide visibility of a complete schedule having classified data. 
 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
31 
A4.4.  Responsibilities.  Information technology personnel of the CAF Aviation SIPT Executive 
Secretariat will provide web site management for CPS.  The scheduling expertise of the CAF 
Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat is exclusive to aviation scheduling and only has the 
requisite subject matter expertise to actively maintain the Aviation Schedule.  A functional 
manager is defined as an individual or organization that has the requisite subject matter expertise 
to maintain their respective schedule in the CPS.  The CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat 
is the functional manager for only the Aviation Schedule portion of the CPS. 
A4.4.1.  CAF Aviation SIPT Executive Secretariat will: 
A4.4.1.1.  Create and maintain a SIPRNET web page to serve as a point for hosting 
functional manager provided links for each schedule. 
A4.4.1.2.  Provide copies of the aviation scheduling software source code and web site 
may be provided to those scheduling communities that want to modify and adapt it for 
their use.  Software programming code modifications will not be accomplished for 
agencies other than the CAF Aviation SIPT. 
A4.4.1.3.  Provide day-to-day schedule management and change coordination functions 
only for the Aviation Schedule since expertise and processes are limited to aviation 
matters. 
A4.4.2.  Functional Managers will: 
A4.4.2.1.  Maintain their independent schedule content using any web supportable 
software format that meets their community’s need.  The format may be, but is not 
exclusive to, spreadsheet, text document, or adapted aviation scheduling software. 
A4.4.2.2.  Use a schedule change coordination system to best meet their communities’ 
needs.  Each individual schedule manager may use whatever mechanism necessary to 
process schedule changes.  Only Aviation Schedule changes will be made through the 
ACTS.  However, a copy of the ACTS software may be adapted for use.  Software 
modification is the responsibility of the particular schedule data manager. 
A4.4.2.3.  Be responsible for the coordination and approval of their respective schedule 
data. 
A4.4.2.3.1.  Coordination processes will be separate from the Aviation Schedule 
coordination process.  Separate schedule change coordination eliminates confusion 
and maintains the integrity of each schedule. 
A4.4.2.3.2.  Approval processes will be separate from the Aviation Schedule approval 
process.  Separate approval allows focused emphasis and appropriate functional 
manager recognition.  The Aviation CPS has two approval processes that allow for 
concentrated attention on specific event types - one for the contingency schedule and 
one for training. 
A4.4.2.3.3.  To efficiently use general officer time, schedules having exclusive A3 
purview may be considered for inclusion with the Aviation Schedule approval 
package as long as the timing and format meets the Aviation Schedule process.  
Functional managers will officially coordinate with the CAF SIPT each time they 
desire their schedule to be included with the Aviation Schedule approval package. 
32 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
Attachment 5 
ACC OPERATIONS CENTER GFM / APEX TOOL SUITE 
A5.1.  The ACCOC GFM/APEX site contains access to a suite of tools available to track and 
execute contingency sourcing commitments.  These tools include: 
A5.1.1.  The Joint Staff /J35 Joint Operations Division (JOD)-Global Force Management 
(GFM) 
website 
located 
at: 
 
http://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/jsj3/j33/jod-
gfm/default.aspx . The ACCOC GFM APEX information and authority is derived from the 
SDOB which resides on the JOD-GFM site. Additional policies, guidance and links are also 
contained on the JOD-GFM site. 
A5.1.1.1.  The annual allocation of forces is contained in the GFM Allocation Plan which 
includes the Base Order, five supporting annexes and bi-weekly, special book 
modifications.  CAF allocations reside primarily in Annex A. 
A5.1.1.2.  GFM Implementation Guidance (GFMIG) An explanation of the GFM 
allocation process is contained in the GFMIG (Chapter 3).  The GFMIG also contains 
the force assignment tables (Chapter 2) and the force apportionment tables (Chapter 3). 
A5.1.1.3.  GFM Allocation Planning Policy and Procedures (CJCSM 3130.06).  This 
document includes detailed procedures for all phases of the GFM allocation process and 
is commonly referred to as the GFM “Business Rules.” 
A5.1.2.  The Joint Operations Planning and Execution System, or JOPES, is the system of 
record for execution authority.  The use of JOPES is directed. All force movements directed 
through the GFMAP will be coordinated and managed within the JOPES database to ensure 
total visibility.  All JOPES actions will be guided by CJCSM 3122.02D (JOPES VOL III). 
A5.1.2.1.  Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments (DCAPES) is 
the Air Force automated data system that ties to JOPES. 
A5.1.3.  The 
Joint 
Capabilities 
Requirements 
Manager 
(JCRM) 
is 
located 
at:  
https://heracles.csd.disa.smil.mil/JCRM/user/dashboard.do and provides the portal to 
submit sourcing solutions through JOD-GFM for inclusion in the SDOB for SecDef 
approval. JCRM requires a username and password to enter. 
A5.1.4.  The Combat Air Force (CAF) Aviation Scheduling Integrated Product Team (SIPT) 
CPS website is located at http://cafsipt.langley.af.smil.mil and provides a variety of queries 
for the Aviation Schedule including:  Contingency, training, exercises, inspections and other 
important aviation related events.  The CPS can be queried via the FORTRESS database 
program located at the website. 
A5.1.5.  Defense 
Readiness 
Reporting 
System 
(DRRS) 
is 
located 
at: 
https://drrs.csd.disa.smil.mil/drrs/ and provides the combatant commanders, military 
services, Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), and other key DoD users a data-driven environment and 
tools in which to evaluate, in near real-time, the readiness and capability of U.S. Armed 
Forces to carry out assigned and potential tasks. Unit SORTS, METLs and DOC Statements 
are available through DRRS.  DRRS requires a username and password for access. 
AFI10-420  6 OCTOBER 2017 
33 
A5.1.6.  AEF Reporting Tool (ART) CSAF-directed system at the AEF Center that was 
developed to measure AEF readiness. It is a secure, web-based tool that resides on the 
SIPRNET. It addresses readiness at the UTC level. 
 
