BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-101 
18 FEBRUARY 2025 
Command and Control Operations 
EVALUATION OF GROUND BASED 
RADAR SYSTEMS AND SENSORS 
SUPPORTING COMMAND AND 
CONTROL (C2) ENTERPRISE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: ACC/A3C 
Certified by: AF/A3T 
Supersedes: 
AFI 13-101, 25 November 2020 
Pages: 15 
 
 
This instruction implements Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 13-1, 
Command and Control (C2) Enterprise.  This instruction provides guidance and procedures for 
the Air Force program for evaluating ground-based surveillance radar systems and sensors (fixed, 
tethered and mobile).  This publication applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members 
of the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, and those who are 
contractually obligated to comply with Department of the Air Force publications. This publication 
does not apply to the United States Space Force.  This instruction requires the collection and or 
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Department of 
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5400.11, DoD Privacy and Civil Liberties Programs.  The applicable 
System of Records Notices (SORNs) F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management System 
(ARMS) is available at: https://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs/. Ensure all records 
generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 
(AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in 
accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), located in the Air 
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).  Refer recommended changes and 
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the Department 
of the Air Force (DAF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command, to Air Combat Command 
(ACC)/Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance (C2ISR) Operations 
Division (ACC/A3C), 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 121, Joint Base Langley-Eustis VA 23665-2789, 
ACC/A3C C2ISR Operations Division &lt;acca3c.c2isrops@us.af.mil&gt;.  This publication 
may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this 
2 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
publication for coordination prior to approval. Major commands (MAJCOMs) are to forward 
proposed MAJCOM-level “direct supplements” to this volume to Air Force Training and Exercises 
Division 
(AF/A3TE), 
through 
ACC 
Combat 
Integration 
Branch 
(ACC/A3CI), 
ACCA3YICombat@us.af.mil for review and coordination prior to approval.  The authorities to 
waive wing or unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, 
T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See Department of the Air Force Manual 
(DAFMAN) 90-161, Publications Processes and Procedures, for a description of the authorities 
associated with the tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to 
the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, as identified in paragraph 1.3, or alternately, to the 
publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  The document 
was reorganized for enhanced clarity and to avoid duplication of information. Additionally, roles 
and responsibilities for support, funding, tasking, testing, and data release authority are now 
identified. 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
3 
Chapter 1 
OVERVIEW 
1.1.  General.  Radars, sensors, and C2 systems play a vital role in air domain awareness.  Many 
special types of radars are installed in numerous operational environments.  The capability of each 
radar, sensor and system must be measured and adjusted so they can be configured to provide 
optimum performance and effectively meet their operational and technical mission requirements. 
1.2.  Scope.  Air Force policy is to ensure tactical and strategic air defense ground-based radars, 
sensors, C2 systems, and electronic resources are installed, maintained, and operated in a high state 
of readiness to provide the ability to rapidly detect threats.  Ground-based radar systems evaluation 
provides management with a tool for determining the capability of each radar system to detect, 
identify, track and control aircraft; determine aircraft height and maximize operational readiness 
and flight safety.  In addition, ground-based radar systems evaluations determine the configuration 
for optimal performance in a dynamic weather and radar environment.  Lastly, through continuous 
evaluation of radar systems, C2 systems are provided accurate information to process, track, and 
display data.  These systems include Joint Surveillance System (JSS), North Warning System 
(NWS), Tethered Aerostat Radar System (TARS), Wide Area Surveillance (WAS) sensors, 
Atmospheric Early Warning System (AEWS), National Capital Region-Integrated Air Defense 
System (NCR-IADS), Air Defense Sector (ADS) Battle Control Center (BCC), the Control and 
Reporting Center (CRC), cloud-based command and control (CBC2) systems and Tactical 
Operations Centers (TOCs). The Air Force will evaluate these, and any other rapidly integrated 
systems and databases as needed in support of Great Power Competition preparedness. 
1.3.  Waivers. 
1.3.1.  ACC Director of Operations (ACC/A3), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) Air and 
Cyberspace Operations (PACAF/A3/6), and United States Air Forces in Europe-Air Forces 
Africa Director of Operations (USAFE-AFAFRICA/A3/10) will serve as the respective 
MAJCOM OPR with waiver approval authority for all requests for waivers from tiered 
compliance statements in this instruction.  Guidance on filing a copy of approved written 
waivers with this volume is provided in DAFMAN 90-161. 
1.3.2.  All waiver requests will be submitted in writing through channels to the appropriate 
MAJCOM OPR. (T-2) 
4 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITES 
2.1.  ACC C2ISR Division (ACC/A3C).  ACC/A3C is the executive agency for the United States 
Air Force (USAF) Radar Evaluation Program. ACC/A3C will: 
2.1.1.  Maintain the Department of Defense JSS and Air Force’s radar systems evaluation 
capability. 
2.1.2.  Support other service, DoD agency, government, or non-government organization 
requests on a case-by-case basis.  Approval authority is ACC/A3CI.  ACC/A3CI will 
coordinate all requests with DoD Long Range Radar Joint Program Office (ACC/A3AJ) and 
ACC C2 Mission Systems Branch (ACC/A6OC). 
2.1.3.  ACC will establish a periodic evaluation program for mobile ground-based radar 
systems (e.g., AN/TPS-75).  This program will be tailored to mission requirements, detected 
losses in system performance, and/or time since the last evaluation. 
2.1.4.  ACC/A3C delegates ACC/A3CI authority for subject matter experts (SME) in the 
management for this instruction. 
2.2.  ACC Combat Integration Branch.  ACC/A3CI is responsible for C2 systems integrations. 
ACC/A3CI will: 
2.2.1.  Coordinate any changes to this publication with all office of collateral responsibility 
(OCRs) listed below: 
2.2.1.1.  ACC/A3AJ Long Range Radar Joint Program Office (JPO). 
2.2.1.2.  ACC/A6OC Command and Control (C2) Mission System Branch (ACC/A6OC). 
2.2.1.3.  Pacific Air Forces (PACAF)/A3/6 
2.2.1.4.  United 
States 
Air 
Force—Air 
Forces 
Europe/Africa 
(USAFE-
AFAFRICA)/A3CO. 
2.2.1.5.  National Guard Bureau (NGB)/Air National Guard Operations (A3/10) 
2.2.1.6.  Air Forces Central Command current of operations (AFCENT/A3C) 
2.2.2.  Review all requirements for 84 Radar Evaluation Squadron (84 RADES) support with 
ACC/A3AJ and ACC/A6OC.  Note:  Radar systems that feed data into the North American 
Aerospace 
Defense 
Command 
(NORAD)/United 
States 
Northern 
Command 
(USNORTHCOM) enterprise will receive top priority over all other requirements. 
2.2.3.  Be the tasking authority for 84 RADES evaluation activity and will coordinate the 
evaluation schedule with ACC/A3AJ and ACC/A6OC. 
2.3.  Air Combat Command (ACC).  As the combat air forces lead command, ACC is 
responsible for funding evaluations and evaluation support requirements to support fleet-wide 
program acquisition and modernization efforts. 
 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
5 
2.4.  ACC Resources and Budget (ACC/FM).  ACC/FM will ensure funding is provided to 
support state-of-the-art radar evaluation technology, evaluations of proposed systems in the design 
review phase of acquisition, the maintenance/sustainment/improvement of radar evaluation 
networks, and other support requirements set by the SMEs. 
2.5.  Program Element Monitors (PEMs).  PEMs for ground-based radar systems will ensure 
fleet-wide modification programs include funding to support necessary evaluations by the 84 
RADES. 
2.6.  Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).  Due to the unique mission, specialized equipment, 
and specialized training required at the 84 RADES, AFPC will normally limit 84 RADES enlisted 
assignments to personnel who hold 7-level skill qualifications.  Guidance to ensure an assignment 
availability code is annotated by the 84 RADES commander (84 RADES/CC) is provided in the 
ACC stabilized tour guides.  ACC will ensure all positions defined by requirements set by the Air 
Force Manpower Analysis Agency (AFMAA) and their operational maturity model (OMM) are 
funded positions. 
2.7.  Major Commands (MAJCOMs).  MAJCOMs operating ground-based surveillance radars, 
sensors and C2 systems will: 
2.7.1.  Program funds for the 84 RADES evaluation of systems under the MAJCOM 
commander’s operational control and related flight support. 
2.7.2.  Provide flight support for evaluating command fixed, tethered and mobile radars, 
sensors and C2 systems. 
2.7.3.  Request services for baseline, special, and system radar evaluations according to 
Chapter 5. 
2.7.4.  When a fixed radar system is not being evaluated using 84 RADES automated remote 
recording and monitoring equipment, the using command must maintain a periodic radar 
evaluation program. 
2.8.  The 84 Radar Evaluation Squadron (RADES).  84 RADES is ACC’s SME for the 
planning, development, testing and implementation of ground-based radar, sensors, C2 systems 
and related matters. 84 RADES will: 
2.8.1.  Conduct baseline, special, system evaluations and continuous performance monitoring 
and evaluation for ground-based surveillance radars, sensors and C2 systems. 
2.8.2.  Conduct radar site surveys, radar site analysis, and produce radar coverage products. 
2.8.3.  Conduct interference and obstruction analysis (e.g.,) man-made structures within 
system’s line of sight) for ground-based radars and sensors for NORAD/NORTHCOM (N-
NC) or as tasked by ACC/A3CI. 
2.8.4.  Extract relevant obstruction projects from the federal aviation administration (FAA) 
obstruction evaluation and airport airspace analysis system and conduct a technical analysis of 
the impact of obstructions within radar line of sight on the performance of long range and 
short-range radars/sensors used for N-NC missions. 
2.8.5.  Conduct analysis evaluations that include assessments of proposed and existing 
obstructions (such as a building or wind turbine farm) on the performance of the radar as well 
as determine the cumulative impact of the existing interference.  The initial technical analysis 
6 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
reports will be forwarded to N-NC and ACC/A3AJ for further action if the obstruction impacts 
the radar’s performance. 
2.8.6.  Provide analysis products that will use a combination of radar, atmospheric, 
terrain/screening, and other supplementary data sets to provide a comprehensive product to 
DoD or other government agencies supporting track-of-interest, event analysis, aircraft 
accident investigations, search and rescue missions, and test and evaluation of ground-based 
radars and C2 sensors. 
2.8.7.  Support recorded radar/sensor data requests IAW Chapter 5. 
2.8.8.  Establish and maintain operating locations (OLs) at each of the N-NC ADS.  OLs will 
confirm data integrity of radar and C2 sensors feeding the C2 systems or prior to introduction 
to N-NC enterprise; collects and analyzes radar and sensor performance data; and provides 
radar forensics in support of ADS missions. OLs will provide support to the ADS through 
foreign entity incursion and high priority event reconstructions, radar/sensor integration 
recommendations for priority airspace events, crew positional training on RADES equipment 
& software. 
2.8.9.  Maintain the capability to deploy survey and evaluation teams worldwide in support of 
contingency operations. 
2.8.10.  Develop and acquire specialized tools necessary to complete C2 system, radar and 
sensor evaluation missions. 
2.8.11.  Develop and maintain mission-specific infrastructure, including networks and 
information systems, at the appropriate classification level to support the software and 
hardware tools used in the radar, sensor, and C2 system evaluation mission. 
2.8.12.  Develop and maintain RADES Software (RS4) along with future RADES software 
versions, distributed radar analysis and monitoring software (DRAMS), and other software 
required to accomplish the squadron’s mission. 
2.8.13.  Develop, maintain, and obtain an authority to operate (ATO) for special purpose 
networks, datacenters, and systems required to develop and operate mission-specific software 
and hardware at an operating classification level appropriate for the systems being evaluated. 
2.8.14.  Support approved agencies/units with RADESNet/special purpose advanced radar test 
and analysis (SPARTA) access, equipment, and training. Some units will not have full 
RADESNet/SPARTA access, instead they will have stand-alone radar data interface system 
(RDIS) equipment for radar evaluation and monitoring within their own networks. 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
7 
Chapter 3 
RADAR EVALUATION 
3.1.  Baseline Evaluation.  This evaluation is performed to: 
3.1.1.  Determine optimum configuration of adjustable and selectable features (software and 
hardware), capabilities and limitations, and airspace coverage.  It is tailored to individual radar 
sites and missions and includes effects of weather and terrain on detection and tracking 
performance.  Dedicated flights may be required to make this assessment. 
3.1.2.  Provide a performance database and determine operational parameters and airspace 
coverage for inclusion in the 84 RADES electronic monitoring evaluation system. 
3.2.  Special Evaluation.  This evaluation is performed to: 
3.2.1.  Assist an operating organization in isolating the causes of substandard performance. 
3.2.2.  Determine the effects of proposed and existing modifications on the operational 
capability and recommended configuration. 
3.2.3.  Determine the best site location or positioning of a radar and the optimum setting of 
adjustable features for use under varying conditions. 
3.2.4.  Determine the effects of proposed and existing structures within the radar line-of-sight 
on the operational capability and recommended configuration. 
3.3.  System Evaluation.  This evaluation determines how well multiple sensors integrate into a 
central facility or system to include assessment of the radar inputs processing portion of the central 
system, such as radar message handling, tracker, and display functionality. 
3.4.  Continuous Performance Monitoring and Evaluation.  This type of evaluation is a 
continuous near real-time evaluation process performed on previously baselined radars.  The data 
collected during the baseline evaluation is used for initial pass/fail criteria and establishes a 
baseline for performance for each individual radar system.  This evaluation is performed to: 
3.4.1.  Continuously monitor/assess radar performance based on short-term and long-term 
trends. 
3.4.2.  Continuously monitor radar data quality. 
3.4.3.  Detect radar performance deviations from established standards. 
3.4.4.  Alert users of system effectiveness and deterioration in detection capability. 
3.4.5.  Allow for corrective action to be affected before complete system failure. 
3.5.  Remote Evaluations.  This type of evaluation uses recorded or live data feeds to perform a 
radar or C2 sensor system evaluation.  It supplements the on-site evaluation through the use of 
available radar data feeds and specialized software to provide an in-depth look at a particular 
system’s performance.  This type of evaluation may fulfill the requirements of a re-baseline, 
special or system evaluation when conditions and/or equipment cannot support an on-site 
evaluation. 
3.6.  Baseline and Re-baseline.  An initial baseline evaluation is required as soon as possible after 
a unit or agency completes installation acceptance testing and resolves major exceptions.  The 
8 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
radar should be operationally stable and properly connected to the C2 enterprise.  A baseline 
evaluation and integration to the C2 enterprise is required before the radar is fully mission capable.  
Mobile radar systems may require a baseline evaluation if their deployed location becomes fixed. 
3.6.1.  Re-baseline and integration into the C2 system is necessary following major repairs, 
major modifications, or permanent radar relocation or as specified in Air Force Manual 
(AFMAN) 11-225 IP, United States Standard Flight Inspection Manual. 
3.6.2.  A baseline evaluation, conducted in conjunction with the FAA is required before the 
commission of radars in the JSS and/or the integration of air defense ground-based radars into 
the National Airspace System. 
3.6.3.  The 84 RADES will monitor performance of previously baselined fixed radars on a 
continuous basis, and they will perform a special evaluation when degradation is indicated 
either remotely or in-person at the radar site. (T-2) 
3.6.4.  Each established (in-place) radar or sensor system should receive an evaluation within 
8 years, if possible, to assure sustained and optimal performance, as well as to validate the 
site’s environmental impacts on the system. 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
9 
Chapter 4 
NEW SYSTEM FIELDING 
4.1.  Engineering Support.  The 84 RADES will provide engineering level SMEs during the 
developmental testing (DT)/operational testing (OT) phases of radar acquisition and fielding and 
will evaluate new radar and C2 systems prior to integration into the C2 enterprise when verification 
services are requested by N-NC, other combatant commands, or allied countries and approved by 
ACC/A3CI. (T-2) 
4.2.  Test Agency Support.  The 84 RADES supports test agencies/units by providing radar SMEs 
to support their tests. The 84 RADES is not a test organization. The following units are regularly 
supported by the 84 RADES: 
4.2.1.  46th Test Squadron (46 TS) for DT. 
4.2.2.  605th Test and Evaluation Squadron (605 TES) for OT. 
4.2.3.  Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) for OT. 
4.2.4.  FAA Technical Operations, Air Traffic Organization (FAA AJW) DT and OT events 
for new radars. 
10 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
Chapter 5 
SUPPORT REQUESTS 
5.1.  Requests.  All requests for support from the 84 RADES will be submitted to ACC/A3CI.  (T-
2) Their email address is ACCA3YICombat@us.af.mil.  ACC/A3CI will coordinate all requests 
with ACC/A3AJ and ACC/A6OC. (T-2)  All requests are to be considered on a case-by-case basis 
with priority given to support N-NC missions.  Other priorities are to be Air Force, other service 
or DoD agency, other government agency, or non-government agency, in that order.  
Prioritizations for requests are: 
5.1.1.  Priority 1: Operational systems (inoperable). 
5.1.2.  Priority 2: Operational system (degraded). 
5.1.3.  Priority 3: New program. 
5.1.4.  Priority 4: Operational system. 
5.1.5.  Priority 5: All others. 
5.2.  Classification Guidance.  Classification will be IAW classification guides, such as 
Sensor/Radar Program Security Classification Guides and Sensor/Radars Security Classification 
References. The release authority for 84 RADES coverage products, evaluation reports, data 
analysis studies and other 84 RADES generated artifacts will be the 84 RADES/CC. 
5.3.  Recorded Radar/Sensor Data Requests.  The 84 RADES supports requests for recorded 
radar/sensor data for use with test and evaluation, safety investigations or other specified situations 
to DoD or other government agencies as required. Request for release of any recorded radar data 
must be approved through ACC/A3AJ. (T-2) 
5.3.1.  ACC/A3AJ will maintain a historical archive of recorded sensors. The historical archive 
will include sensor data for not less than the previous seven years. (T-2) 
5.3.2.  Analysis products will include track-of-interest, event analysis, aircraft accident 
investigations, search and rescue missions for operating locations, safety centers and other 
government agencies. (T-2) 
5.4.  Radar Evaluation/Site Survey Requests.  All radar evaluation/site survey requests will, as 
a minimum, contain the following information: 
5.4.1.  Purpose.  Define problems and state the reason for the request. (T-2) 
5.4.2.  Location. (T-2) 
5.4.3.  Type of radar or C2 system and associated equipment to be evaluated. (T-2) 
5.4.4.  Desired date for support. (T-2) 
5.4.5.  Mission impact if the evaluation is not performed by the desired date. (T-2) 
5.4.6.  Special items of concern and other pertinent information. (T-2) 
5.4.7.  Points of contact. (T-2) 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
11 
5.4.8.  Funding source to conduct requested support.  After being tasked, 84 RADES contacts 
the requesting unit to provide a cost estimate and to secure a fund cite.  If applicable, include 
funds for dedicated flights if requestor is not providing aircraft. (T-2) 
5.5.  Engineering Support/Test Requests.  All engineering support requests, including C2 
testing, recorded radar data, live data feeds, network connectivity issues, and software support will, 
as a minimum, contain the following information: 
5.5.1.  Purpose.  Define problems and state the reason for the request. (T-2) 
5.5.2.  Requesting agency and organization. (T-2) 
5.5.3.  Desired date for support. (T-2) 
5.5.4.  Mission impact if the evaluation is not performed by the desired date. (T-2) 
5.5.5.  Special items of concern and other pertinent information. (T-2) 
5.5.6.  Points of contact. (T-2) 
5.5.7.  Testing requests (OT, DT, research and development, analysis, etc.). 
5.5.8.  C2 system to be tested. (T-2) 
5.5.9.  Dates and location of testing. (T-2) 
5.5.10.  Listing of testing requirements. (T-2) 
5.6.  Recorded Data Requests.  (e.g., National Transportation Safety Board Investigations, Air 
Force Safety Center investigations, legal request, obstruction analysis). All recorded data requests 
will, as a minimum, contain the following: 
5.6.1.  Start and stop date/time of requested data. 
5.6.2.  Release authorization by data owner(s).  Request for release of any recorded radar data 
must be approved through ACC/A3AJ.  If authorization has not been granted, coordinate with 
the 84 RADES to assist in identifying the proper release authority/data owner. 
5.6.3.  Area of interest (including top left and lower right coordinates, or center point and 
radius of the area of interest).  Alternatively, the customer can provide a list of all radar sites 
to be included. 
5.7.  Software support requests:  All recorded data requests will, as a minimum, contain the 
following: 
5.7.1.  Software title requested. 
5.7.2.  Description of support required. 
5.7.3.  Email address for software delivery. 
 
5.8.  Track of Interest, Event Analysis and Radar Data Reduction Request.  All tracks of 
interest, event analysis and radar data reduction requests will contain the following information as 
known: 
5.8.1.  Description of the needed reduction including special items of concern and other 
pertinent information. (T-2) 
12 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
5.8.2.  Incident class (A-F or none). (T-2) (If unknown, coordinate with 84 RADES) 
5.8.3.  Priority (High/Med/Low). (T-2) (If unknown, coordinate with 84 RADES) 
5.8.4.  Requesting agency and organization. (T-2) 
5.8.5.  Desired completion date. (T-2) 
5.8.6.  Mission impact if the evaluation is not performed by the desired date. (T-2) 
5.8.7.  Points of contact name, organization/office symbol, phone number, and email. (T-2) 
5.8.8.  Product routing information to include name, organization/office symbol, phone 
number, and email. (T-2) 
5.8.9.  Incident details for each aircraft will include: 
5.8.9.1.  Aircraft type. (T-2) 
5.8.9.2.  Incident date. (T-2) 
5.8.9.3.  Start time (Z) and stop time (Z). (T-2) 
5.8.9.4.  Modes and codes and other broadcast identification if available. (T-2) 
5.8.9.5.  Latitude and longitude. (T-2) 
5.8.9.6.  Heading. (T-2) 
5.8.9.7.  Tail number. (T-2) 
5.8.9.8.  Departure airport. (T-2) 
5.8.9.9.  Arrival time. (T-2) 
 
ADRIAN L. SPAIN, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
13 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Air Force Instructions (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
Program, 23 March 2020 
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 11-225_IP, United States Standard Flight Inspection Manual, 1 
April 2015 
Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 13-1, Command and Control (C2) Enterprise, 22 April 
2021 
Department of Air Force Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publications Processes and Procedures, 
18 October 2023 
Department of Defense Directive (DODD) 5400.11, DoD Privacy and Civil Liberties Programs, 
29 January 2019 
System of Records Notices F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS), 4 
March 2011 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
Department of Air Force (DAF) Form 673 Publication/Form Action Request 
Department of Air force (DAF) Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
84 RADES—84 Radar Evaluation Squadron 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
ADS—Air Defense Sector 
AEWS—Atmospheric Early Warning System 
AFCENT—Air Forces Central Command 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFMAA—Air Force Manpower Analysis Agency 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center 
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center 
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System 
14 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
AJW—Technical Operation Services (Federal Aviation Administration Technical Operation 
Services) 
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System 
ATO—authorization to operate 
BCC—battle control center 
C2—command and control 
C2ISR—command and control, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance 
CBC2—cloud based command and control 
CRC—control and reporting center 
DAF—Department of Air Force 
DAFMAN—Department of Air Force Manual 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DRAMS—distributed radar analysis and monitoring software 
DT—developmental testing 
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration 
IAW—in accordance with 
JSS—joint surveillance system 
MAJCOM—major command 
NCR-IADS—National Capital Region-Integrated Air Defense System 
NGB—National Guard Bureau 
N-NC—NORAD/NORTHCOM 
NORAD—North American Aerospace Defense Command 
NORTHCOM—Northern Command 
NWS—north warning system 
OCR—office of collateral responsibility 
OL—operating location 
OMM—operational maturity model 
OPR—office of primary responsibility 
OT—operational testing 
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces 
PEM—Program Element Monitor 
AFI13-101  18 FEBRUARY 2025 
15 
RDIS—rada data interface system 
RDS—records disposition schedule 
SME—subject matter expert 
SORN—system of records notices 
SPARTA—special purpose advanced radar test and analysis 
TARS—Tethered Aerostat Radar System 
TES—test and evaluation squadron 
TOC—tactical operations center 
TS—test squadron 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USAFE-AFAFRICA—United States Air Forces in Europe/Air Forces Africa 
WAS—wide area surveillance 
Office Symbols 
84 RADES/CC—84th Radar Evaluation Squadron Commander 
ACC/A3—ACC Director of Operations 
ACC/A3AJ—ACC Long Range Radar Joint Program Office 
ACC/A3C—ACC Command, Control, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations 
Division 
ACC/A3CI—ACC Combat Integration Branch 
ACC/A6OC—ACC C2 Mission Systems Branch 
ACC/FM—ACC Resources and Budget 
AF/A3T—Air Force All Domain Command and Control Operations 
AF/A3TE—Air Force Exercises and Training Division 
AFCENT/A3C—Air Force Central Command Current Operations 
FAA AJW—Federal Aviation Administration Technical Operations Services, Air Traffic 
Organization 
PACAF/A3/6—Pacific Air Forces Air and Cyberspace Operations 
NGB/A3/10—Air National Guard Operations 
NGB/A3C—Air National Guard C2ISR & Airfield Operations 
USAFE-AFAFRICA/A3/10—United States Air Forces in Europe-Air Forces Africia Director of 
Operations, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
 
