BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-2607 
9 AUGUST 2018 
Operations 
CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL, 
RADIOLOGICAL, AND  
NUCLEAR SURVIVABILITY 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: AF/A10S 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI 10-2607, 21 April 2016 
Certified by: AF/A10S  
(Colonel LeAnne Moore) 
Pages: 10 
 
 
This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-26, 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Enterprise. It establishes the guidelines and 
procedures for implementing chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) 
survivability requirements.  It applies to all Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air 
Force Reserve personnel who develop, manage or operate CBRN mission-critical systems and/or 
infrastructure, and to all Air Force mission-critical systems and infrastructure regardless of 
Acquisition Category, classification, compartmentalization or “special access program” 
designation.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force 
Information Management System.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this 
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation 
for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate 
functional chain of command.   The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements will be 
identified by Tier Number (“T-0”, “T-1”, “T-2”, “T-3”) following the compliance statement.  
See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities 
associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to 
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the requestor’s commander for 
non-tiered compliance items. This publication may not be supplemented or further 
implemented/extended. 
2 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety.  
Unnecessary verbiage and less-common acronyms were deleted, reference to the Air Force 
Requirements Review Group was removed, and definitions were added for “hardness assurance”, 
“hardness maintenance”, and “hardness surveillance.” 
1.  Overview 
1.1.  The Air Force must be able to survive and/or operate in chemical, biological, and 
radiological (CBR) contamination and/or nuclear environments in order to deter adversaries 
from using weapons of mass destruction (WMD) while also guaranteeing mission assurance 
if WMD is used.  This concept is known as CBRN Survivability. 
1.2.  CBRN Survivability consists of CBR contamination survivability and nuclear 
survivability.  Where CBR contamination survivability is primarily concerned with the 
principles of CBR hardness, CBR decontaminability, and CBR compatibility, nuclear 
survivability is concerned with surviving initial nuclear effects (including electromagnetic 
pulse). 
1.3.  The Air Force addresses CBRN survivability by identifying mission-critical systems and 
infrastructure required to survive and/or operate in CBRN environments and ensuring their 
availability through hardening, timely resupply, redundancy, mitigation (i.e., tactics, 
techniques, and procedures), or a combination thereof. 
1.4.  CBRN Survivability considerations apply throughout a system’s and/or infrastructure’s 
life cycle. 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities 
2.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ)  : 
2.1.1.  Oversees the acquisition and sustainment of mission-critical systems ensuring 
compliance with CBRN survivability requirements, when applicable. 
2.1.2.  Ensures CBRN survivability requirements (as described in DoD Instruction 
(DoDI) 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) 
Survivability Policy, and this instruction) are incorporated into applicable acquisition 
guidance. 
2.1.3.  Ensures system and joint program offices support the Lead Command (as 
prescribed in AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon 
Systems) or Sponsor (as prescribed in AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements 
Development) in assessing the vulnerability of legacy and development-phase CBRN 
mission critical systems. 
2.1.4.  Ensures program managers implement hardness assurance programs, as well as, 
continuing hardness maintenance and hardness surveillance programs if the system 
requires hardening to survive against nuclear, ballistic, chemical, biological, high-power 
microwave, or laser threats IAW AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management. 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
3 
2.1.5.  Collects and provides CBRN mission-critical system and infrastructure data to 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) in support 
of the Mission Critical Report. 
2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4)  : 
2.2.1.  Ensures Air Force CBRN Defense Systems concerns are addressed in Joint 
Requirements Office capability requirements documents. 
2.2.2.  Ensures CBRN Survivability considerations are addressed in military construction 
guidance documents. 
2.2.3.  Assists AF/A10 with gathering data on CBRN mission-critical systems and 
infrastructure in support of the Mission Critical Report as prescribed in DoDI 3150.09. 
2.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Requirements (AF/A5/8)  : 
2.3.1.  Oversees operational CBRN survivability requirements integration in the Air 
Force operational capability requirements process. 
2.3.2.  As required, reviews and approves “CBRN Mission Critical” determinations and 
associated CBRN Survivability requirements in Capability Development Documents and 
Capability Production Documents. 
2.3.3.  Assists AF/A10 with gathering data on CBRN mission-critical systems and 
infrastructure in support of the Mission Critical Report. 
2.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10)  : 
2.4.1.  Validates operational survivability requirements for CBRN mission-critical 
systems and infrastructure managed under the Nuclear Deterrent Operations Panel. 
2.4.2.  Represents the Air Force at the CBRN Survivability Oversight Group (CSOG) and 
supporting working groups. 
2.4.3.  Reviews Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System documents to 
ensure CBRN Survivability is adequately addressed. 
2.4.4.  Works with the Air Force Requirements and Acquisition communities to ensure 
CBRN Survivability requirements (as prescribed in DoDI 3150.09 and this instruction) 
are incorporated into applicable requirements and acquisition policy. 
2.4.5.  Compiles the Air Force’s Mission Critical Report, and forwards it to the Assistant 
to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense (ASD(NCB)). 
2.5.  Director of Air Force Test and Evaluation (AF/TE).    Oversees the testing and 
evaluation of system survivability IAW AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation. 
2.6.  Lead Command  or Sponsor: 
2.6.1.  Considers CBRN threats when determining desired operating environment(s) for 
mission critical systems IAW established DoD procedures. 
2.6.2.  Describes the concept of operations for the desired capability likely to be 
employed in the CBRN environment and plans for CBRN survivability validation and 
verification. 
4 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
2.6.2.1.  Includes CBRN mission critical determinations and justifications in 
Capability Development Documents and Capability Production Documents (see 
CBRN Mission Critical Decision Matrix at Figure 1.). (T-0)  Justifications should 
fully explain CBRN Survivability requirements and/or planned mitigation strategies. 
2.6.2.2.  For mission-critical systems and infrastructure determined to be “CBRN 
Mission Critical” (See Figure 1.), includes a CBRN Threat Analysis in the Threat 
Summary sections of applicable Joint Capabilities Integration and Development 
System documents. (T-0)  
2.6.3.  Provides an assessment of the mission-critical system’s or infrastructure’s CBRN 
survivability in the anticipated battlefield environment to support milestone decisions and 
in-process reviews. Collaborates with the system program manager to address any 
shortfalls identified in meeting CBRN survivability requirements; provides a plan for 
meeting the requirements. 
2.6.4.  Conducts a review to assess the impact to the system’s CBRN survivability during 
capability document updates. 
2.6.5.  For legacy systems, provides explicit CBRN survivability parameters for inclusion 
in required modification documents per AFI 63-101/20-101. 
2.6.6.  Ensures changes to requirements, including a decision to lessen nuclear command 
and control survivability requirements, are approved IAW DoDI 3150.09, The Manual 
for The Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, and 
AFI 10-601. (T-0) 
2.6.7.  Works with the system program manager to identify the architecture and the 
modeling and simulation required for the mission critical system's acquisition, operations, 
testing, training, and sustainment. 
2.6.8.  Works with the system program manager to regularly assess the vulnerability of 
legacy CBRN mission-critical systems through system testing, according to applicable 
DoD Standards (e.g., military standards, etc.).  For legacy CBRN mission-critical systems 
assessed as vulnerable, works with the system program manager to ensure appropriate 
actions are taken that include, but are not limited to: identification of lessons learned; 
development of tactics, techniques, and procedures to mitigate risks; identification of 
materiel limitations; and development of schedules and funding plans to reduce 
vulnerabilities, as appropriate. 
2.6.9.  Identifies CBRN mission-critical systems and infrastructure that require hardening 
for CBRN survivability.  (T-0) 
2.6.9.1.  Ensures compliance with established hardness assurance, hardness 
maintenance and hardness surveillance programs for CBRN mission critical systems 
hardened for nuclear survivability IAW DoDI 3150.09 and AFI 63-101/20-101. (T-0) 
2.6.9.2.  Ensures compliance with established preventive maintenance checks and 
services programs for systems and infrastructure hardened for CBR contamination 
survivability, and monitors facility effectiveness IAW local operations, provided 
maintenance manuals for installed systems, and/or applicable technical data, as 
appropriate. (T-0) 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
5 
2.6.10.  Works with the system program manager to address CBRN survivability at each 
acquisition milestone for all CBRN mission critical systems under development, as a part 
of a DoD Acquisition Program, IAW DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense 
Acquisition System. 
2.6.11.  Provides data to AF/A10 on mission-critical systems and infrastructure in support 
of Mission Critical Report requirements. 
2.7.  Using Command  : 
2.7.1.  Ensures compliance with established hardness assurance, hardness maintenance 
and hardness surveillance programs for CBRN mission critical systems hardened for 
nuclear survivability IAW DoDI 3150.09 and AFI 63-101/20-101. (T-0) 
2.7.2.  Ensures compliance with established preventive maintenance checks and services 
programs for systems and infrastructure hardened for CBR contamination survivability; 
monitors facility effectiveness IAW local guidance, provided maintenance manuals for 
installed systems, and/or applicable technical data, as appropriate. (T-0) 
2.7.3.  Provides data to AF/A10 on mission-critical systems and infrastructure in support 
of Mission Critical Report requirements. 
2.8.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command  ensures the Air Force Nuclear Weapons 
Center and the Air Force Research Laboratory comply with their responsibilities identified in 
this instruction. 
2.8.1.  Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center  .   Assists system, command, and joint 
program 
offices 
with 
legacy 
and 
development-phase 
modeling, 
simulation, 
experimentation, testing, evaluation, analysis, scientific research, and technology 
demonstrations for nuclear systems and infrastructure.  Provides scientific and 
technological support to the development and implementation of nuclear risk mitigation 
tactics, techniques, and procedures and nuclear weapon effects hardness requirement 
recommendations.  These tasks are accomplished when formally requested and when 
funding is provided (subject to resource constraints). 
2.8.2.  Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL).    Advances Air Force CBRN 
survivability through system modeling, simulation, testing, analysis, evaluation, scientific 
research, and technology demonstration support to the development and implementation 
of AF CBRN risk mitigation technologies, methodologies and tactics, techniques, and 
procedures.  Performs these tasks for system, command, and joint program offices when 
formally requested and when funding is provided (subject to resource constraints). 
2.9.  Commander, Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center.    Ensures 
operational test and evaluation planning, execution, and reporting for all Acquisition 
Category I and II programs, as well as for all Office of the Secretary of Defense operational 
test and evaluation oversight programs IAW AFI 99-103.  If operational test and evaluation 
is required, the report evaluates system effectiveness, suitability, and mission capability, to 
include CBRN survivability. 
 
 
6 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
3.  Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Survivability Implementation 
3.1.  The Lead Command or Sponsor will include a CBRN threat analysis in the “Threat 
Summary” section of all Initial Capability Documents, Capability Development Documents, 
and Capability Production Documents generated through the Joint Capabilities Integration 
and Development System. (T-0)  Additionally, a “mission critical” determination will be 
included in all Capability Development Documents and Capability Production Documents. 
(T-0)  Mission-critical systems and infrastructure expected to survive and/or operate in CBR 
contamination and/or nuclear environments will be designated “CBRN Mission Critical” (T-
0); use Figure 1. to help guide “Mission Critical” and “CBRN Mission Critical” decisions.  
“Mission Critical” and “CBRN Mission Critical” designations determined by Lead 
Commands or Sponsors for Air Force systems are subject to review and approval by the Air 
Force Requirements Oversight Council and/or the Joint Requirements Oversight Council. 
3.2.  Lead Command or Sponsor must harden systems required to survive and operate in 
nuclear environments. (T-0)  Lead Command or Sponsor will ensure hardness assurance 
during system acquisition. (T-0)  In addition, Lead and Using Commands will apply hardness 
maintenance and hardness surveillance programs throughout the system’s life cycle. (T-0)   
3.3.  If command and control systems and/or infrastructure require hardening to survive in 
nuclear environments, Lead and Using Command(s) shall ensure applicable hardness 
assurance, hardness maintenance and hardness surveillance programs are in place IAW AFI 
63-101/20-101. (T-0)  
3.4.  Lead and Using Commands will also maintain preventive maintenance checks and 
services programs for systems and infrastructure hardened for CBR contamination 
survivability and monitor facility effectiveness IAW local guidance, provided maintenance 
manuals for installed systems, and/or applicable technical data, as appropriate. (T-0) 
 
 
 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
7 
 
Figure 1.  Mission Critical Decision Tool. 
 
 
JACK WEINSTEIN, Lt Gen, USAF 
DCS, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
8 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
AFPD 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Enterprise, 17 June 2015 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability 
Policy, 8 April 2015 
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March 
2007 
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013 
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 9 May 2017 
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 6 April 2017 
Manual for the Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS 
Manual), 12 February 2015.  Document available from OPR (202-404-6540 or DSN 754-6540) 
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 7 January 2015 
CJCSI 6810.01B, Critical Nuclear Command and Control (NC2) Equipment and Facilities, 21 
Jun 13.  Document available from Joint Staff/J3 (703-697-3776/7223 or DSN 227-3776/7223) 
Allied Engineering Publication-7 (AEP-7), Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
(CBRN) Contamination Survivability Factors in the Design, Testing and Acceptance of Military 
Equipment, Edition 5, April 2012.  Document available from OPR (202-404-6540). 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory 
CBR—Chemical, Biological, and Radiological 
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
CSOG—CBRN Survivability Oversight Group 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
IAW—In Accordance With 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
9 
Terms 
CBR Compatibility—The ability of a system to be operated, maintained, and resupplied by 
personnel wearing the full individual protective equipment in climates for which the system is 
designed and for the time period specified in the system requirements. (AEP-7) 
CBR Contamination Survivability—The capability of a system and its crew to withstand a 
CBR contaminated environment, including decontamination, without losing the ability to 
accomplish the assigned mission.  The three main principles of CBR contamination survivability 
are hardness, decontaminability, and compatibility. (AEP-7) 
CBR Decontaminability—The ability of a system to be rapidly and effectively decontaminated 
using standard CBR decontaminates and procedures available in the field to the point that any 
remaining contaminant poses no casualty-producing hazard to unprotected personnel exposed for 
the duration of the mission. (AEP-7) 
CBR Environment—The environment created by chemical, biological, or radiological 
contamination. (DODI 3150.09) 
CBR Hardness—The capability of materiel or a system to withstand damaging effects from 
CBR contamination, applicable decontaminates, and/or decontamination procedures. (AEP-7) 
CBRN Mission-Critical—That subset of mission-critical systems with operational concepts 
requiring employment and survivability in a CBR environment or a nuclear environment. 
CBRN Survivability—The capability of a system to avoid, withstand, or operate during and/or 
after exposure to a CBRN environment (and decontamination process) without losing the ability 
to accomplish the assigned mission. CBRN survivability is concerned with contamination that 
includes fallout and initial nuclear weapons effects, including blast, EMP and other initial 
radiation and shockwave effects. (DoDI 3150.09) 
Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP)—The electromagnetic radiation from a nuclear explosion caused 
by Compton-recoil electrons and photoelectrons from photons scattered in the materials of the 
nuclear device or in a surrounding medium. The resulting electric and magnetic fields may 
couple with electrical/electronic systems to produce damaging current and voltage surges.  
Depending on the burst type, can cause power spikes ranging from several hundred volts per 
meter up to more than one million volts per meter.  Can cause component or sub-system burnout 
or degradation and system upset. (DODI 3150.09) 
EMP Survivability—The capability of a system to withstand exposure to an EMP environment 
without losing the ability to accomplish its designated mission throughout its life cycle.  EMP 
survivability may be accomplished by hardening, timely resupply, redundancy, mitigation 
techniques (including operational techniques), or a combination thereof. (DODI 3150.09) 
Hardness Assurance—The procedures applied during production of a hardened system (and 
through periodic validation testing, as required) to make sure that the hardness built into the 
system is retained throughout the life of the system. (DODI 3150.09) 
Hardness Maintenance—Procedures applied during the operational phase of a hardened system 
to make sure that the hardness built into the system is retained throughout the life of the system. 
(DODI 3150.09) 
10 
AFI10-2607  9 AUGUST 2018 
Hardness Surveillance—Inspection and test procedures that are conducted during the 
operational life of the system to ensure that the designed hardness of the system is not degraded 
through operational use, logistic support, or maintenance actions. (DODI 3150.09) 
Lead Command—The command that serves as the using command’s interface with the Program 
Manager for a system as prescribed by AFPD 10-9.  Lead Command designation is not exclusive 
to Major Commands; Field Operating Agencies and Direct Reporting Units may also be 
designated. 
Mission Critical System—A system whose operational effectiveness and operational suitability 
are essential to successful mission completion or to aggregate residual combat capability. If this 
system fails, the mission likely cannot be completed.  Such a system can be an auxiliary or 
supporting system, as well as a primary mission system. (DODI 3150.09) 
Mission Critical Report—A report required by DoDI 3150.09 that identifies a Service’s 
Mission Critical Systems and Infrastructure.  It includes CBRN survivability assessments for 
those systems expected to survive and/or operate in chemical, biological, radiological 
contamination and/or nuclear environments. 
Nuclear Command & Control System—The combination of facilities, equipment, 
communications, procedures, and personnel essential for planning, directing, and controlling 
nuclear weapons, weapons systems, and associated operations. (DODI 3150.09) 
Nuclear Environment—The environment created by nuclear weapon effects (i.e., air blast, 
thermal radiation, nuclear radiation, fallout, and electromagnetic pulse) and by radiation in space.  
(DODI 3150.09) 
Nuclear Hardening—The employment of any design or manufacturing technique or component 
applied to an item or system that allows it to avoid failure or destruction, resist malfunction 
(temporary or permanent) and/or prevent degraded performance induced by nuclear weapon 
effects. Such systems are considered to be nuclear hardened. (DODI 3150.09) 
Nuclear Survivability—The capability of a system or infrastructure to withstand exposure to 
nuclear environments without suffering loss of ability to accomplish its designated mission 
throughout its life cycle.  Nuclear survivability may be accomplished by hardening, timely 
resupply, redundancy, mitigation techniques (including operational techniques), or a 
combination.  Includes EMP survivability. (DODI 3150.09) 
Sponsor—The organization responsible for documentation, periodic reporting, and funding 
actions necessary to support needed capabilities (AFI 10-601). 
Using Commands—Those commands operating a system, subsystem, or item of equipment 
related to a weapon system procured by a Lead Command. 
 
