BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-324 
22 JULY 2019 
Communications and Information 
THE AIR FORCE INFORMATION 
COLLECTIONS AND REPORTS 
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: SAF/CNZA 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI 33-324, 6 March 2013 
Certified by: SAF/CNZ  
(Ms. Wanda Jones-Heath) 
Pages: 12 
 
 
This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information 
Management; Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8910.01, Information Collection and 
Reporting, and Department of Defense Manual (DoDM) 8910.1-M, Volume 1 and 2, Department 
of Defense Procedures for Management of Information Requirements.  This publication applies to 
all military (active, reserve, guard), civilians, and contractors.  It establishes procedures and 
assigns responsibilities for managing and controlling information collections and reporting 
requirements according to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C.§3501.  This 
instruction also gives guidelines and procedures for licensing internal information collections and 
reports, requesting information from the public, and reporting projected public information 
collections to Congress.  Send recommended changes or comments to Secretary of the Air Force, 
Cyberspace Capabilities and Compliance (SAF/CNZA), 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington 
DC 20330-1800, through office of primary responsibility channels, using Air Force Form (AF) 
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  The authorities to waive wing/unit level 
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following 
the compliance statement.  See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a 
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers 
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to 
the requestor’s commander for non-tiered compliance items.  Ensure all records created as a result 
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force 
Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
2 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or 
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed. Major changes 
include updating office symbols, acronyms, hyper-links, policy signature block, and email 
addresses to reflect current organizations. 
 
 
 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
3 
Chapter 1 
PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
1.1.  Purpose.  The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: 
1.1.1.  Reduces costly, ineffective, and redundant information collections and reporting 
requirements. 
1.1.2.  Establishes procedures for information collecting and reporting of internal and public 
requirements. 
1.1.3.  Implements portions of Chapter 35 of Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction 
Act of 1995 to: 
1.1.3.1.  Minimize the Federal paperwork burden on the public, small businesses, and state 
and local governments. 
1.1.3.2.  Minimize the Federal Government's costs for collecting, maintaining, using, and 
disseminating information. 
1.1.3.3.  Maximize the usefulness of information collected, maintained, and disseminated 
by the Federal Government. 
1.1.3.4.  Coordinate, integrate, and where practical, create uniform Federal information 
policies and practices. 
1.1.3.5.  Make sufficient information available to all commanders and management 
personnel to achieve mission effectiveness. 
1.2.  Scope.  This instruction covers procedures that apply to new, existing and revised information 
collection requests, whether they are recurring or a one-time report.  Refer to it for guidelines on 
all types of data and information collecting and reporting. 
1.2.1.  Managers must control and minimize the burden associated with the collection and 
reporting of information. (T-1)  Apply the guidelines in this instruction when: 
1.2.1.1.  Establishing and maintaining policies, plans, and objectives. 
1.2.1.2.  Reviewing program proposals. 
1.2.1.3.  Allocating resources. 
1.2.1.4.  Reviewing actual performance against program goals. 
1.2.1.5.  Satisfying statutory, congressional, and other imposed interagency information 
requirements. 
1.2.1.6.  Collecting information from the public (public reporting). 
1.2.1.7.  Collecting information from within the Department of Defense. 
1.2.1.8.  Collecting information from other federal agencies. 
1.3.  Roles and Responsibilities.  Headquarters Air Force, major commands, field operating 
agencies, direct reporting units, and all activities generating an information requirement have 
responsibilities in the Information Collections and Reports Management Program. 
4 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
1.3.1.  The Deputy Chief of Information Dominance and Deputy Chief Information Office, 
Compliance Division (SAF/CNZA) oversees the Information Collections and Reports 
Management Program through the Air Force Information Management Control Officer.  The 
Air Force Information Management Control Officer shall (T-1): 
1.3.1.1.  Manage the Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management 
Program. 
1.3.1.2.  Serve as technical advisor to the Air Force. 
1.3.1.3.  Act as liaison between the Air Force major commands, Department of Defense 
and federal agencies. 
1.3.1.4.  Review all requests for internal and public information collections. 
1.3.1.5.  Submit the following to Department of Defense: 
1.3.1.5.1.  Request for approval of internal and public collections. 
1.3.1.5.2.  Public collection Federal Register Notices. 
1.3.1.5.3.  Information Collection Budget. 
1.3.1.6.  Review and coordinate on all departmental publications and forms. 
1.3.2.  Commanders and Directors will implement this instruction. Headquarters Air Force, 
major commands, wing level and their units, direct reporting units, and field operating agencies 
will appoint an Information Collections and Reports Manager in writing and will send the 
appointment letter to usaf.pentagon.saf-cn.mbx.af-info-collection@mail.mil to include the 
name, functional address symbol, e-mail address, and telephone number of the newly assigned 
Information Collections and Reports Manager. (T-1) 
1.3.3.  All Information Collections and Reports Managers shall (T-1): 
1.3.3.1.  Give personnel guidelines and training. 
1.3.3.2.  Conduct periodic program reviews. 
1.3.3.3.  Review and coordinate on all of their agency publications and forms (new or 
revised) for compliance with this instruction. 
1.3.3.4.  Review all requests for internal and public collections. 
1.3.3.5.  Forward internal and public collections to usaf.pentagon.saf-cn.mbx.af-info-
collection@mail.mil. 
1.3.3.6.  Act as technical advisors and liaisons to the Air Force Information Management 
Control Officer. 
1.3.3.7.  Submit the annual Information Collection Budget to SAF/CNZA through their 
chain-of-command. 
1.3.4.  All organizations generating information collections and reporting requirements must 
submit requests for information that are: 
1.3.4.1.  Concise, valid, accurate, and essential to the mission. 
1.3.4.2.  Licensed in accordance with this program. 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
5 
1.4.  Noncompliance Provision.  Air Force organizations that are tasked to submit information 
for compliance with a collection of information will (T-1): 
1.4.1.  Respond to exempt or licensed information requirements. 
1.4.2.  Notify the agency and Information Collections and Reports Manager making a request 
for an information collection reporting requirement without an approved control number, that 
either a report control symbol and/or an Office of Management and Budget control number is 
required. 
1.4.3.  Not collect the required information until the requesting agency furnishes a control 
number.  Note: If the requesting agency does not license the requirement, they must withdraw 
their request. 
 
 
6 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
Chapter 2 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTERNAL INFORMATION COLLECTION 
2.1.  Department of Defense Internal Information Collections.  This chapter provides the 
necessary information for the Air Force to develop, review, revise, obtain approval and cancel 
their Department of Defense internal information collections.  It also specifies the responsibilities 
of the Air Force for responding to internal collections imposed on the Department of Defense by 
other federal Agencies. 
2.1.1.  A Department of Defense internal information collection is one in which the Air Force 
needs to collect information from one or more Department of Defense Components.  
Information is collected from current Department of Defense employees (military and 
civilian). 
2.1.2.  Department of Defense internal information collections shall be approved by the 
Department of Defense Internal Information Collections Officer in the Washington 
Headquarters Services/Executive Services Directorate Information Management Division.  If 
approved, the collection will be assigned a report control symbol and an expiration date. 
2.2.  Responding to an Information Collection.  Air Force program managers and portfolio 
managers responding to information collections from other Department of Defense Components 
and/or federal agencies shall (T-1): 
2.2.1.  Reply to written requests for cost estimates concerning their existing or proposed 
information collections. 
2.2.2.  Respond to approved information collections. 
2.2.3.  Refrain from responding to unapproved information collections and inform the Air 
Force Information Management Control Officer or Department of Internal Information 
Collections Officer of the solicitation. 
2.3.  Reports or Information Collections That Require a Control Symbol.  Status, summary, 
or statistical information that is compiled and transmitted from one organizational component to 
another for management purposes requires licensing with a report control symbol.  According to 
DoDI 8910.01, information collection requirements that have not been properly approved and 
symbolized shall not be honored. 
2.3.1.  Sometimes an office of primary responsibility needs to query a reporting activity for 
additional information contained in an already established report control symbol report.  These 
requests do not constitute a new reporting requirement. 
2.3.2.  A report control symbol assigned to a reporting requirement does not apply to the 
submission of additional information not contained in the original report and required by 
intermediate headquarters.  The intermediate headquarters is required to license the 
requirement for additional information by issuing an organizational report control symbol 
number.  An additional report control symbol is not required when the request of information 
transmitted to intermediate headquarters does not exceed the scope of the original report. 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
7 
2.3.3.  Regardless of how the information is submitted, whether by paper report, electronically, 
or through directed insertion of data into an electronically accessible database, a report control 
symbol is still required. 
2.4.  Information Collections and Reports Managers’ Procedures for New and Revised 
Report Control Symbols' Reports.  For each new or revised information requirement, 
Information Collections and Reports Managers refer to DoDM 8910.1-M, Vol 1 and Vol 2, for 
specific procedures on Department of Defense internal information collections. (T-0) 
2.5.  Licensing Reporting Requirements in Automated Systems. 
2.5.1.  An organization developing an automated system must coordinate with the Information 
Collections and Reports Manager to ensure all reporting requirements are properly licensed.  
Coordinate with the Air Force Information Management Control Officer if it is an Air Force-
wide system.  The office of primary responsible for the system should consider what would 
happen to all reports uploaded from one organizational component to another or generated on 
paper, tape, computer-output microfilm, or as output of an electronic database. 
2.5.2.  The Information Collections and Reports Manager or the Air Force Information 
Management Control Officer will work with the office of primary responsibility to determine 
what data submissions require a control symbol.  Note: All output products that collect 
information for a licensed report must display the office of primary responsibility control 
symbol. (T-1) 
2.6.  Emergency Collections.  On an individual case-by-case basis, special one-time high priority, 
or time-urgent collections may be approved and symbolized without being subjected to an in-depth 
review and analysis, provided a statement of urgency is included with the DD Form 2936, Request 
for Approval of Department of Defense Internal Information Collection, and signed at an office of 
primary responsibility level commensurate with the estimated cost of providing the information.  
An expiration date of short duration will be assigned until the additional required documentation 
is completed and submitted to the Department of Defense Internal Information Collections Officer. 
2.7.  Discontinuing 
and 
Superseding 
a 
Report 
Control 
Symbol 
Reporting 
Requirement.  Originating organizations that want to discontinue or supersede a report control 
symbol reporting requirement must: 
2.7.1.  Send written notification to the reporting activities if they have superseded or 
discontinued a report control symbol report. 
2.7.2.  Update the publication that prescribes the report control symbol report by issuing a 
revision or an interim change to reflect the current status of the reporting requirement.  Include 
this information in the “Summary of Revisions” once the publication is rewritten. 
2.7.3.  Submit a copy of the written notification and a draft of the revised publication or interim 
change to the component Information Collections and Reports Manager or the Air Force 
Information Management Control Officer. 
2.7.4.  Coordinate with servicing records manager to effect disposition of any accumulated 
records and coordinate on requirement to change any report specific records disposition. 
 
 
8 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
Chapter 3 
PUBLIC INFORMATION COLLECTION 
3.1.  Publication Information Collections.  This chapter provides guidance on the Paperwork 
Reduction Act and seeking Office of Management and Budget approval to collect information 
from the public. The Air Force shall not collect information from the public without first obtaining 
Office of Management and Budget approval. A public information collection is the collection of 
information from ten or more members of the public on an annual basis. 
3.2.  How the Paperwork Reduction Act Bears on Collecting Information from the 
Public.  Public Law 104-13 and its implementing regulation, Title 5 Code of Federal Regulations 
Part 1320, cover the policy for collecting information from the public. The Paperwork Reduction 
Act attempts to minimize the Federal paperwork burden on the public. 
3.3.  The Scope of the Paperwork Reduction Act.  The Paperwork Reduction Act applies to all 
executive departments, military departments, government corporations, government-controlled 
corporations, and other establishments in the Executive Branch of the Federal Government.  All 
of the Federal Government's independent regulatory agencies must adhere to it. 
3.4.  The Annual Information Collection Budget. 
3.4.1.  Major command, direct reporting unit, and field operating agency Information 
Collections and Reports Managers shall respond to the annual data call for projected 
information collection budgets. (T-1) 
3.4.2.  Submit responses to SAF/CNZA, ATTN: Air Force Information Management Control 
Officer, 1800 AF Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1800 or usaf.pentagon.saf-cn.mbx.af-
info-collection@mail.mil. 
3.5.  New and Revised Public Information Collections.  The Information Collections and 
Reports Managers shall ensure that organizations requesting information from the public submit 
new, revised, and extended requests for Office of Management and Budget approval. (T-1) 
3.6.  Expired Public Information Collections.  The Office of Management and Budget licenses 
a public information collection for three years, according to the Paperwork Reduction Act. All 
public information collections carry an expiration date.  Note: An expired public information 
collection is an illegal collection of information and you must discontinue it until given proper 
approval. 
3.7.  Office of Management and Budget Approval Application Procedures.  Information 
Collections and Reports Managers shall refer to DoDM 8910.1-M for specific procedures on public 
information collections. (T-0) 
3.7.1.  The organization that generates the public information collection must request approval 
and licensing from Office of Management and Budget through proper channels. (T-1) 
3.7.2.  Office of primary responsibilities submit required documentation (see paragraph 
3.7.2.1 through paragraph 3.7.2.3) to their major command, direct reporting unit, and field 
operating agency Information Collection and Reports Managers.  Sample documentation can 
be found at http://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/collections/. The list of required 
documentation is as follows: 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
9 
3.7.2.1.  Office of Management and Budget Form 83-I, Paperwork Reduction Act 
Submission. 
3.7.2.2.  Supporting Statement. 
3.7.2.3.  Supporting Documentation (System of Records Notice (SORN), Privacy Impact 
Assessment (PIA), and copy of the collection instrument(s)). 
3.7.2.3.1.  Federal Register Notices. 
3.7.2.3.2.  The title page and pertinent sections of any regulatory and statutory 
authorities that authorize the collection. 
3.7.2.3.3.  The instrument of collection in final draft version.  If the instrument of 
collection is a form, the agency’s forms management office prepares the final draft 
according to procedures in AFI 33-360.  If the instrument of collection is a system, 
screen shots of the questions shall be submitted. 
3.7.2.3.4.  Instructions that accompany the instrument of collection. 
3.7.2.3.5.  Paperwork Reduction Act Submission Coordination Summary Sheet. 
3.8.  Processing Time.  Allow at least 120 days to process a request for Office of Management 
and Budget approval. 
3.9.  Emergency Processing.  The Department of Defense/CIO shall approve emergency requests 
for the processing of a collection of information under the following circumstances: 
3.9.1.  When the collection of information is needed prior to the expiration of time periods 
established in the Paperwork Reduction Act and is essential to the mission of the agency. 
3.9.2.  When the agency cannot reasonably comply with normal clearance procedures under 
the Paperwork Reduction Act, because: (1) Public harm is reasonably likely to result if normal 
clearance procedures are followed; (2) An unanticipated event has occurred; or (3) The use of 
normal clearance procedures is reasonably likely to cause a statutory or court-ordered deadline 
to be missed. 
3.9.3.  For example, public harm would be prevented if strategies to Office of Management 
and Budget at a public health epidemic depend on information in a survey that needs to be 
fielded immediately. An example of an unanticipated event would be a natural disaster that has 
led to the need to provide benefits quickly to the victims. The use of emergency clearance 
procedures is warranted if a new statute is passed that requires implementation of an 
information collection within clearly shorter time frames called for in The Paperwork 
Reduction Act and specify the time period within which Office of Management and Budget 
should approve or disapprove of the collection (Title 5 Code of Federal Regulations Part 
1320.13). Control numbers assigned to collections of information approved under the 
"emergency processing" procedures are not valid for more than 180 days from the date the 
agency requested approval. 
3.10.  Request for Extension.  Organizations having primary responsibility for a currently 
licensed public information collection may request a 90-day extension in emergency situations.  
This request is submitted using Office of Management and Budget Form 83-E, Paperwork 
Reduction Act Emergency Extension, when additional time is needed to prepare the request for an 
Office of Management and Budget review for a collection that is expiring. 
10 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
3.11.  Canceling 
an 
Office 
of 
Management 
and 
Budget-Approved 
Information 
Collection.  The major commands, direct reporting units, and field operating agency Information 
Collections and Reports Managers sends a cancellation notification to SAF/CNZA, ATTN: Air 
Force Information Management Control Officer, 1800 AF Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1000 
or usaf.pentagon.saf-cn.mbx.af-info-collection@mail.mil. The Air Force Information 
Management Control Officer then sends the request for cancellation to the Department of Defense 
Clearance Officer, who informs the Office of Management and Budget desk officer. 
3.12.  Exemptions to Information Collection Requirements.  Specific items not considered to 
be information can be found in Title 5 Code of Federal Regulations Part 1320 and Department of 
Defense 8910.1-M. 
 
WILLIAM E. MARION II, SES, USAF 
Deputy Chief Information Officer 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
11 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
44 U.S.C.§3501, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 
1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, current edition 
DoDI 8910.01, Information Collection and Reporting, 19 May 2014 
DoDM 8910.1-M, Volume 1 and 2, Department of Defense Procedures for Management of 
Information Requirements, 30 June 2014 
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011 
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Adopted Forms 
Office of Management and Budget Form 83-I, Paperwork Reduction Act Submission 
Office of Management and Budget Form 83-E, Paperwork Reduction Act Emergency Extension 
DD Form 2936, Request for Approval of Department of Defense Internal Information 
Collections 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
CIO—Chief Information Officer 
Terms 
Information Collection Budget—The Federal Government’s projected burden on the public for 
new requirements to collect information. It is the estimated response time (direct and indirect) for 
the public to collect, record, and submit information to the Federal Government. Each year the 
Office of Management and Budget issues a “budget call” for the Federal Government’s Office of 
Management and Budget. 
License—Pertaining to an Air Force approval information collection/report process. Air Force 
information collections or reports are licensed once the Air Force Information Manager Control 
Officer or Office of Management and Budget approves the information collection. A license is 
good for 3 years. 
Public Information Collections—Those collections that require responses from the public. The 
Paperwork Reduction Act defines a collection of information to be: “The obtaining or soliciting of 
facts or opinions by an agency through the use of written report forms, application forms, 
schedules, questionnaires, reporting or record keeping requirements, or other similar methods 
calling for either: (1) Answers to identical questions posed to, or identical reporting or record 
keeping requirements imposed on, ten or more persons, other than agencies, instrumentalities, or 
employees of the United States; or (2) Answers to questions posed to agencies, instrumentalities, 
12 
AFI33-324  22 JULY 2019 
or employees of the United States which are to be used for general statistical purposes.” This 
includes information collections that are mandatory, voluntary, or required to obtain a benefit. 
Report Control Symbol—A standard agency designation (control number) for a report consisting 
of letters or numbers indicating that the report has been reviewed and approved according to 
Department of Defense  and Air Force directed procedures. 
Similar Methods—(as specified in the definition of “Public Information Collections” in this 
glossary) “Similar methods” includes contracts, agreements, policy statements, plans, rules or 
regulations, planning requirements, circulars, directives, instructions, bulletins, requests for 
proposals or other procurement requirements, telegraphic or telephonic requests, and standard 
questionnaires used to monitor compliance with agency requirements. 
 
 
