BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE MANUAL 33-396 
12 AUGUST 2019 
Communications and Information 
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no release restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: SAF/CNZA 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI33-396,  
                        7 November 2014 
Certified by: CNZ  
(Ms. Wanda Jones-Heath, SES) 
Pages: 36 
 
 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management, 
and complies with International Standards Organization 30401-2018 Knowledge Management 
System.  It identifies essential Knowledge Management (KM) resources to assist commanders with 
improving the unit and executing the mission and provides guidance for all organizations to 
effectively and efficiently leverage knowledge as a strategic resource and accomplish the life cycle 
of information. This manual applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members of the 
Regular Air Force, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve, as well as to Air Force contractors 
when required by the terms of their contracts. This AFMAN may be supplemented at any level, 
but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to SAF/CNZA, 
Compliance Division for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended 
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using 
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field 
through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level 
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following 
the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description 
of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain 
of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the requestors 
commander for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure all records created as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, 
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition 
2 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. The use of the name 
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this 
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document is substantially changed and must be reviewed in its entirety. AFI 33-396 was re-
designated as AFMAN 33-396 and rewritten to align with and support commanders in carrying 
out their responsibilities as outlined in AFI 1-2 for improving the unit and executing the mission 
based on initial coordination with SAF/MG/PRT/SRB.  This AFMAN updates and clarifies what 
KM is and what the roles, responsibilities, resources, and knowledge management services are for 
operationalizing knowledge management. 
 
Chapter 1— OVERVIEW 
 
4 
1.1. 
 Introduction.   ..........................................................................................................  
4 
1.2. 
 KM in the Operational Context.   ............................................................................  
4 
1.3. 
 KM Defined.   .........................................................................................................  
4 
Figure 1.1. 
 Data to Decision Knowledge Model (also known as the Data-Information-
Knowledge-Wisdom Model). ..................................................................................  
6 
Figure 1.2. 
 KM Core Competencies Enable Improved Outcomes. ...........................................  
7 
Chapter 2— KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT EFFECTS, CAPABILITIES, AND 
SERVICE STANDARDS 
 
8 
2.1. 
 Effects.   ..................................................................................................................  
8 
2.2. 
 Capabilities.  ...........................................................................................................  
8 
2.3. 
 Service Standards.  ..................................................................................................  
9 
Chapter 3— KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
11 
3.1. 
 The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force Deputy Chief Information Officer 
(SAF/CN).  ...............................................................................................................  
11 
3.2. 
 Air Combat Command (ACC).  ..............................................................................  
11 
3.3. 
 Air Force Knowledge Management Capability Working Group (AFKM CWG).   
12 
3.4. 
 MAJCOM, AF component HQs (AFCHQ), and wing Commanders.  ...................  
13 
3.5. 
 Knowledge Workers.  .............................................................................................  
17 
Chapter 4— KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CORE COMPETENCIES 
 
18 
4.1. 
 Requirements. .........................................................................................................  
18 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
3 
4.2. 
 Focus Areas.  ...........................................................................................................  
18 
4.3. 
 Roles. ......................................................................................................................  
18 
4.4. 
 Training Levels. ......................................................................................................  
19 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
20 
Attachment 2— KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CORE COMPETENCIES TABLE 
 
25 
 
 
 
4 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Chapter 1 
OVERVIEW 
1.1.  Introduction.    KM is a critical command and multi-domain command and control enabling 
capability for improving the unit and executing the mission. This guidance standardizes 
implementation of KM across the Air Force while providing overarching vision and direction for 
commanders to achieve four outcomes:  improved decision cycle effectiveness, shared 
understanding through collaboration, enhanced mission and organizational performance, and agile 
learning. Per the International Standards Organization standard 30401:2018 Knowledge 
Management System, the KM system elements that enable these outcomes are the organization’s 
KM culture, structure, governance and leadership; roles and responsibilities; planning, technology, 
processes and operation. Done well, KM enables knowledge flow to enhance shared 
understanding, learning, innovation, and decision-making; and is linked and aligned to 
organizational priorities. The focus of KM is on knowledge which the Airmen need to accomplish 
their work; improve processes, products, and services; and innovate to add value for the customer 
and organization. 
1.2.  KM in the Operational Context.   Timely, accurate, and relevant information is imperative 
for planning and conducting integrated air, space, and cyberspace operations for multi-domain 
command and control. A lack of decision-ready, actionable knowledge degrades our ability to 
conduct and support operations with the certainty required to support national military objectives. 
A deliberate approach to collaboration, analysis, deliberation, and judgement is required to turn 
raw data into information by implementing the Data to Decision Knowledge Model (also known 
as the Data-Information-Knowledge-Wisdom model) in Figure 1.1 to enable the creation and 
transfer of knowledge at the speed of relevance. KM supports this approach by using the following 
three components of KM to improve the unit and execute the mission. 
1.2.1.  People (those, including leaders, who create, organize, apply, and transfer knowledge). 
1.2.2.  Processes (the methods of creating, organizing, applying, sharing, and transferring 
knowledge). 
1.2.3.  Tools (digital and non-digital knowledge tools used to put knowledge products and 
services into organized frameworks). 
1.3.  KM Defined.    KM is defined as a discipline focused on the integration of people and 
processes enabled by technology throughout the information life cycle to create shared 
understanding and increase organizational performance and decision-making. It is an enabler for 
information dominance--an operational advantage gained from the ability to collect, control, 
exploit, and defend information to optimize decision-making and maximize warfighting effects. 
1.3.1.  KM is the commander’s program for effectively integrating data, information, records, 
and knowledge management capabilities to ensure all mission partners have access to relevant 
information and expertise for achieving decision superiority. Data, information, records and 
knowledge management are different, but interconnected elements that are dependent upon 
one another for effective and efficient operations. 
1.3.1.1.  The goal of KM is to facilitate shared understanding, and faster, more effective 
decision- making and execution. It supports learning and innovation and is focused on the 
people and processes enabling the commander’s decision cycle. 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
5 
1.3.1.2.  The goal of data management is to assure the adequacy of data for its intended 
purpose.  It is focused on structuring data, making data visible, accessible, understandable, 
linked, trusted, and providing the capability to data mine, or query data to extract 
information and knowledge. 
1.3.1.3.  The goal of information management (IM) is to enable timely access and 
dissemination of relevant information. It includes records management and is focused on 
the use of tools and rules to manage the information life cycle. 
1.3.1.4.  Records management is focused on preserving information throughout its life 
cycle as a record of present and past events as well as a basis for future action, and ensuring 
availability to support effective decision-making. 
1.3.2.  Effective KM focuses on managing what the commander needs to know. It facilitates 
knowledge and information flows within/across organizational lines, and ensures the 
information products are properly sequenced and available to build shared situational 
awareness and common understanding of the commander’s intent. KM also reduces 
operational risk and enhances mission operations effectiveness by providing a better 
understanding of the right balance of force to employ, enabling commanders to re-plan and 
redirect operations, as needed. 
1.3.3.  KM is mission-focused and commander centric. Figure 1.1 is a data-to-decision 
knowledge model providing the context for understanding KM, its importance, and role in the 
commander’s decision cycle. Decision cycle phases include monitor, assess, plan, and execute; 
often referred to collectively as observe, orient, decide, and act loop. In the monitor phase, the 
staff researches and collects the data to assemble the facts. Next, in the assessment phase they 
organize that data into information to determine what occurred. Then the staff interacts and 
exchanges with others to create knowledge and develop courses of action in the plan phase. 
Finally, the commander reflecting on his or her wisdom decides what is next and directs the 
execution. This is a high-level view of the decision life cycle to aid communication and 
understanding within the organization. The KM layer facilitates the interactions and exchanges 
that produce courses of action that allow organizations to tackle repeat or unseen problems. 
6 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Figure 1.1.  Data to Decision Knowledge Model (also known as the Data-Information-
Knowledge-Wisdom Model). 
 
1.3.4.  KM is a resource to assist the chief or director of staff in establishing and maintaining 
effective, repeatable staff processes, improving knowledge flow within the unit, and executing 
the mission. An organization that wishes to cope dynamically with the changing operational 
environment needs to be one that creates information and knowledge while meeting 
operational challenges, not merely processing information and knowledge. The KM Staff, 
Team, or Cell enables this creation by improving knowledge flow for organizational learning 
and effective decision-making. The KM Staff, Team, or Cell does not own or manage all the 
KM processes; they assist process owners to achieve and maintain effective information 
exchange processes by helping them find and fix the gaps and disconnects between people; 
people and processes; people and tools; and processes and tools. In simple terms KM is about 
getting the right knowledge to the right person at the right time for the right effect (or decision). 
1.3.5.  The whole organization is a stakeholder in KM. That stakeholder relationship requires 
proactive participation and KM core competencies for Airmen in three broad roles:  knowledge 
workers, KM practitioner, and leadership. KM competencies enable improved outcomes as 
shown in Fig 1.2. Core competencies and training levels for each KM role is covered in Table 
A2.1. (Knowledge Management Core Competencies Table). 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
7 
Figure 1.2.  KM Core Competencies Enable Improved Outcomes. 
 
 
 
8 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Chapter 2 
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT EFFECTS, CAPABILITIES, AND SERVICE 
STANDARDS 
2.1.  Effects.  KM seeks to achieve the following effects: 
2.1.1.  Decision Superiority. Decision Superiority versus support includes a disciplined cross-
functional information flow for the commander’s identified decision requirements and related 
staff processes. Decision Support ensures the right information is available to the right person 
and/or organization at the right time to support timely and accurate decisions. Continuous 
situational awareness and monitoring are necessary to allow the commander to further 
understand the situation and communicate intent for the mission. 
2.1.2.  Improved Individual and Shared Understanding of the Operational Environment. 
Enables Air Force, joint, and coalition information exchange and coordinated operations across 
all spectrums. 
2.1.3.  Constantly Evolving Team-Based Learning. Transforms the Air Force into a learning 
organization using continuous innovation to steadily feed new information, ideas, and concepts 
into an expanding base of tacit and explicit knowledge. Individuals, teams, and organizations 
gain increased knowledge, skills, and shared abilities, facilitating earlier employment of these 
attributes to support the expanding set of expeditionary missions. 
2.1.4.  Optimized Knowledge Processes. The application of KM core competencies in work 
environments assists Airmen with optimizing their mapped processes through various 
knowledge management assessments and techniques. Continuous process improvement 
techniques aid in optimizing knowledge processes throughout the Air Force and develop a 
means to share best practices. This provides Airmen with the ability to easily identify, modify, 
or eliminate ineffective processes and propagate/standardize efficient practices. 
2.1.5.  Seamless Access and Unified Communications. Provide organizations access to 
relevant information anywhere and anytime regardless of hardware or software platforms 
utilized. This is more than information access, as it strives to reduce the burden of information 
overload as well. 
2.2.  Capabilities.   KM provides warfighters with the following capabilities to rapidly access and 
exploit authoritative, accurate, and relevant information to plan courses of action and execute 
missions. 
2.2.1.  Virtual Collaboration. KM provides meaningful situational awareness to all leadership 
levels through the ability to monitor, display, store, distribute, access and share information 
and knowledge. Collaboration enables coordination of different ideas from numerous people 
to generate a wide variety of tacit knowledge. 
2.2.2.  Tailored Information Presentation. KM connects Airmen to authoritative, accurate, and 
relevant information by using role-based attributes provided and tracked automatically. This 
enables force-readiness improvements and contributes to effects-based operations. 
 
 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
9 
2.2.3.  Integrated Data and Information. The information environment supports the integration 
of relevant information, the ability to structure data that allows searches from multiple sources 
and produces improved situational awareness for Airmen based on their role-based attributes 
and responsibilities. Through the combined use of people, processes and technology, Airmen 
are provided with pertinent, clear, timely, and accurate information and knowledge distributed 
to the point and time of need. 
2.2.4.  Locate, Assess, and Refine Information. Airmen can search, query, data mine, and 
locate required information, extract it, determine its veracity and relevancy, and manipulate it 
to further support mission goals. Credential- and role-based access attributes determine a user’s 
access to data, information, and knowledge, as well as their role in the process. This also 
includes the ability to determine the authority of information and information services by 
identifying the source, currency, and conditions of use. 
2.2.5.  Identify, Store, Share and Exchange Information and Knowledge. Airmen can identify, 
store, share and exchange information and knowledge for collaboration and situational 
awareness. Data should be properly identified and labeled, placed in a database or other 
data/information repository, and protected from unauthorized use or disclosure. 
2.2.6.  Manage Information from Creation to Final Disposition. Airmen have the ability to 
store and manage all types of information across its life cycle. This includes all actions 
necessary to store and maintain structured and unstructured information. Critical to this 
concept is the capability to identify and re-use information from multiple functional areas to 
eliminate excess and potentially conflicting information. An integrated enterprise-wide 
metadata repository and services are essential to effective information discovery and 
accessibility. 
2.2.7.  Information Architecture. An established architecture is essential to implementing 
standardized criteria, structured data, processes, and procedures to store and share data. An 
information metadata model as well as cross-security domain solutions that connect Air Force 
capabilities with different environments enables better decision-making through collaboration 
and information sharing with mission partners. 
2.3.  Service Standards.   The service standards identified below serve as a guide for conducting 
KM to improve the organization and execute the mission. 
2.3.1.  Speed and Scale of Operations. Utilize a deliberate approach to manage at the speed 
and scale of operations, data, information and knowledge to accomplish Air Force missions at 
all levels. Align resources as needed to satisfy the business and mission requirements necessary 
for people in organizations to routinely achieve mission success. 
2.3.2.  KM Culture. Establish a culture of KM in the Air Force through sustainable programs, 
which create lasting organizational change and provide a support environment which enables 
the best possible decisions. 
2.3.3.  KM Methods and Practices. Apply KM methods and practices to achieve effective 
knowledge creation, capture, transfer, retention, retrieval, display, dissemination, and sharing, 
regardless of type or security classification. Once captured, promote the availability of data, 
information, and knowledge management tactics, techniques and procedures, within 
organizational knowledge structures. Adopt and adapt joint KM methods, practices, and 
templates at https://intelshare.intelink.gov/sites/jecc/jpse/KM/SitePages/Launch.aspx. 
10 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
2.3.4.  Leverage Best Practices. Leverage and share KM best practices, strategies, techniques, 
and procedures with internal and external mission partners, as appropriate, to improve 
collective KM practices. Employ those practices to continuously improve performance across 
the spectrum of defense operations. 
2.3.5.  Collaboration and Connection. Increase collaboration and discourse by connecting 
communities of interest to improve the flow of knowledge across the AF. This flow stimulates 
innovation and reduces the loss of knowledge due to ineffective information flows, personnel 
moves, retirement, and immature or poorly enforced staff processes. 
2.3.6.  Records Management. Encourage coordination between records management and KM, 
combining established records management, information sharing, data storage, and 
information technology policies with KM best practices in order to promote unity of effort and 
shared understanding. 
2.3.7.  KM as a Foundation. Integrate KM requirements into organization information 
technology governance processes for portfolio management, capital planning, enterprise 
architecture, business process design, and system development. 
2.3.8.  Knowledge Access. Incorporate KM and retention considerations into the design, 
development, enhancement, and implementation of electronic information systems to allow 
organizational knowledge to be found and accessed wherever it resides, as data stored on the 
network and as intellectual capital of personnel. 
2.3.9.  Leverage Enterprise Services. Leverage AF data services and Department of Defense 
(DoD)/AF enterprise information services to make data visible, accessible, understandable, 
linked, and trusted; to become a data-driven organization—one that values and leverages data 
as a strategic asset in all missions and operations to achieve efficiencies, effectiveness, and 
warfighting or competitive advantages at the speed of operations. 
2.3.10.  Strategic KM. Link all knowledge activities to a command or mission objective and 
contribute to effective command decision-making. 
 
 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
11 
Chapter 3 
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
3.1.  The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force Deputy Chief Information Officer 
(SAF/CN).   SAF/CN is responsible for the AF Knowledge Management (KM) program. Specific 
responsibilities include: 
3.1.1.  Establish and oversee AF-wide KM governance structure and processes. KM policies 
and processes will be: 
3.1.1.1.  Developed and published to ensure they are responsive to warfighter needs. 
3.1.1.2.  Applicable to technologies AF personnel use in crisis and steady state across the 
Total Force (Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserves, and Air National Guard). This may 
also apply to joint and coalition partners technologies. 
3.1.2.  Act as the HQ USAF advocate in the Program Objective Memorandum process to 
ensure funding for systems supporting KM and other resources meets operational 
requirements, both at home and forward locations. 
3.1.3.  Manage professional development and utilization of the KM workforce. 
3.1.4.  Establish KM training for all AF personnel to effectively and efficiently manage data, 
information and records in support of mission and business processes. 
3.2.  Air Combat Command (ACC).   ACC will serve as the Air Force lead command for KM, 
to include enterprise information services technologies and information life cycle management as 
a part of the Cyber Defense plan and strategy. ACC’s responsibilities include: 
3.2.1.  Maintain information technology systems within DoD and industry standards to 
efficiently support the information life cycle. 
3.2.2.  Standardize enterprise-level tool suites for the licensing, management and sustainment 
of information workflow, task management, records management, and dashboard services. 
3.2.3.  Ensure AF-wide deployment of enterprise information services capabilities to include 
(but not limited to) deployments of task management and records management capabilities. 
3.2.4.  Ensure AF KM mission and business processes are compliant with all applicable 
cybersecurity directives and instructions. 
3.2.5.  Serve as the overall enterprise information services lead for funding advocacy and 
establishment of a formal enterprise information services program of record. 
3.2.6.  Implement KM initiatives and pilots in order to develop the broader AF knowledge 
sharing culture, empowered by technology. 
3.2.7.  Serve as the organizational echelon between SAF/CN and base-level Knowledge and 
Information Management Office (KIMO). 
3.2.8.  Oversee and manage the Air Force Knowledge Management Capability Working Group 
(AFKM CWG), including coordination and meetings; serve as site owner for the AFKM CWG 
SharePoint site. 
12 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
3.2.9.  Monitor other MAJCOM, Component, and base-level KM, IM, and Knowledge and 
Information Management Cells (KIMC) or Offices (KIMO) activities to see where they need 
help and promote information sharing and coordination between these organizations. Cell is a 
joint doctrine term used in AF command and control organization structures; term is also found 
in the Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense (DOD), Dictionary of Military and 
Associated Terms. 
3.2.10.  Disseminate information related to KM and enterprise information services 
technologies to other MAJCOM, component HQs, wing, base-level and tenant KM, IM, and 
KIM Cells or Offices. 
3.2.11.  Collect and forward training requirements, KM-related best practices, requested policy 
changes, and other pertinent information to CN. 
3.2.12.  Develop KM strategy, concept, requirements documentation, and the enterprise 
information services program of record. 
3.2.13.  Ensure records management procedures are implemented and sustained for all 
enterprise storage services. 
3.2.14.  Ensure technology solutions meet requirements to support discovery capabilities 
according to DoD 5015.02-STD, Electronic Records Management Software Applications 
Design Criteria Standard. 
3.2.15.  Implement policy, advocate for resources, and organize, train, and equip staffs to 
identify, locate, protect, and produce electronically-stored information in response to litigation 
requirements. 
3.2.16.  Cooperate with the AF Legal Operations Agency directing actions to locate and 
preserve electronic records as well as non-record electronically stored information which 
become subject to a litigation hold. 
3.3.  Air Force Knowledge Management Capability Working Group (AFKM CWG).   The 
AFKM CWG is a council of KM professionals who are responsible for managing the Air Force 
KM community. ACC/CYSS serves as the chair for the AFKM CWG. The AFKM CWG will: 
3.3.1.  Comprise membership from the KM representatives (primary/alternate) of each 
MAJCOM, component HQs, wing, including Air National Guard and AF Reserve. Typically, 
the KM representative is the Knowledge Management Officer (KMO) or chief or NCOIC of 
the KIMC or KIMO at each level. 
3.3.2.  Represent the KM, IM, and KIMC or KIMO requirements, and interests of their 
organization on all KM-related matters. 
3.3.3.  Meet at least monthly (typically via collaboration tools) to review the Air Force KM 
program, training, and other milestones. 
3.3.4.  Maintain the AFKM CWG SharePoint site and actively promote peer-level 
communication between all levels of KM professionals and subject matter experts, to include 
base-level KM, IM, and KIMCs or KIMO; monitor and use official social networking sites to 
reply to questions and concerns; disseminate news and information to actively engage 
communication throughout the KM community. 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
13 
3.3.5.  Collect and forward training requirements, KM-related best practices, requested policy 
changes, and other pertinent information to the Cyberspace Support Career Field Managers. 
3.3.6.  Distribute news, information, best practices, and potential solutions to MAJCOM, 
Component HQs, and wing, including Air National Guard and AF Reserve KM, IM, and KIM 
Cells or Offices, as applicable. 
3.4.  MAJCOM, AF component HQs (AFCHQ), and wing Commanders.  
3.4.1.  Commander.  Commanders will establish an organizational KM program and KM 
governance structure to improve the unit and execute the mission. The commander is the Chief 
Knowledge Officer but typically delegates the KM authority and responsibility to the Chief or 
Director of Staff. Commander’s responsibilities include: 
3.4.1.1.  Define battle rhythm to support the Combatant Command’s or Joint Force 
Command’s and/or its own decision-making requirements. 
3.4.1.2.  Establish priorities for information gathering/reporting. 
3.4.1.3.  Approve Commander’s Critical Information Requirements (CCIR). 
3.4.1.4.  Approve KIM annex to any plan. 
3.4.2.  Chief or Director of Staff.   The Chief or Director of Staff functions as the key staff 
integrator. Chief or Director of Staff responsibilities include: 
3.4.2.1.  Establishment and management of effective, repeatable staff processes to support 
good operations. 
3.4.2.2.  Maintain organization's information and knowledge assets; this includes ensuring 
the life cycle of information within the organization are kept in accordance with prescribed 
directives. (T-1). 
3.4.2.3.  Appoint a KMO to assist with developing and executing four KM lines of effort: 
decision support, process management, KM governance, and a knowledge sharing culture. 
At the wing-level, the KM Office of the communications squadron may be realigned to or 
put under the operational control of the Director of Staff or Plans and Programs. 
3.4.2.4.  Provide governance, vision, leadership, and oversight for the organization’s 
implementation and practice of KM. (T-1). 
3.4.2.5.  Ensure resources, personnel, and program management functions are available to 
allow for a successful KM program. (T-1). 
3.4.2.6.  Work closely with the KMO and supporting KM Cell or Office to ensure active 
KM integration, education and compliance becomes a common place across the 
organization. (T-2). 
3.4.2.7.  Enforce the KIM Plan. 
3.4.2.8.  Serve as commander's critical information requirement process manager. 
3.4.2.9.  Approve staff battle rhythm to support the commander’s requirements. 
 
 
14 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
3.4.3.  Knowledge Management Officer and KM Cell or Office.   The KMO reports to the 
Chief of Staff or Director of Staff and is responsible for planning and execution of the KM 
program. At the installation level, the wing commander may choose to have the KMO report 
to the Director of Staff or Wing Plans and Programs or dual hat the Director of Staff or Wing 
Plans and Programs as the KMO. If KM is not realigned to the Wing Director of Staff or Plans 
and Programs, the communications squadron commander or designated flight chief functions 
as the KMO also. The KMO will: 
3.4.3.1.  Serve as the primary integrator of knowledge-related initiatives and directives 
across the organization’s core functions and major responsibilities. 
3.4.3.2.  Establish and chair the organization’s KM CWG, lead development of the KIM 
Plan in accordance with CJCSM 3130.03A, Planning and Execution Planning Formats 
and Guidance.  (T-0). 
3.4.3.3.  Align KM activities to organization’s mission objectives, priorities, and goals. (T-
1). 
3.4.3.4.  Assist the Chief of Staff or Director of Staff with battle rhythm management, 
reporting requirements, and information flow processes. 
3.4.3.5.  Analyze data/information needs and improves workflow processes. 
3.4.3.6.  Leverage AF data services and enterprise information services to make data 
visible, accessible, understandable, linked, and trusted; to become a data-driven 
organization—one that values and leverages data as a strategic asset in all missions and 
operations to achieve efficiencies, effectiveness, and warfighting or competitive 
advantages at the speed of operations. 
3.4.3.7.  Integrate KM requirements into organization’s information technology 
governance processes for portfolio management, capital planning, enterprise architecture, 
business process design, and system development. 
3.4.3.8.  Ensure users are trained on KM technologies and processes; conducts KM 
newcomer, exercise, and KM representative training. (T-1). 
3.4.3.9.  Work with the Communications Planning Team to ensure systems support the 
KIM Plan in both steady state and contingency operations as well as operations in 
disconnected operations and contested environments. Responsible for developing the 
collaboration Primary, Alternate, Contingency and Emergency Plan. 
3.4.3.10.  Work with MAJCOM or AFCHQ A9 (Director of Studies, Analysis and 
Assessments and Lessons Learned) to ensure KM lessons observed from assessments, 
exercises, contingencies, and Inspector General inspections are turned into true lessons 
learned. At the Wing level, this may be Wing Plans or Inspector General. (T-1). 
3.4.3.11.  Works with appropriate OPRs (typically MAJCOM or AFCHQ CN and/or A9; 
Wing Plans or Inspector General) to develop quantitative and qualitative analytic tools to 
enhance commander’s insight and to enable rapid and well-informed decision-making. 
3.4.3.12.  Facilitate and establish cross-functional tiger teams to develop and report on 
potential courses of action to address issues identified by the Chief or Director of Staff. 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
15 
3.4.3.13.  Work with the Office of Primary Responsibility(s) for Continuous Process 
Improvement, learning, and innovation to facilitate continuous improvement, integration, 
and delivery of KM capabilities and effects. 
3.4.3.14.  Receive updates from the AFKM CWG, MAJCOM KM CWG, Combatant 
Commands, and/or Joint Force Command Knowledge Management Working Group 
(KMWG); and disseminate requirements to subordinate units. 
3.4.3.15.  Meet at least monthly, typically via collaboration websites/tools and following 
the AFKM CWG, MAJCOM KM CWG, Combatant Commands, and/or Joint Force 
Command KMWG to review minutes, discuss training and solicit and submit topics for the 
next meeting. 
3.4.3.16.  Maintain the MAJCOM, AF Component HQs, and Wing KM CWG SharePoint 
site and actively promote peer-level communication between all KM professionals. 
3.4.3.17.  Collect and forward training requirements, KM-related best practices, requested 
policy changes, and other pertinent information to the AFKM CWG. 
3.4.3.18.  Distribute KIM news, information, best practices, and potential solutions to their 
users, as applicable. 
3.4.4.  MAJCOM, AF Component, and Wing KM Capability Working Group (KM 
CWG).  Each MAJCOM, AF Component, and Wing should establish an enterprise level KM 
CWG consisting of the KMO or KM Cell rep from each organization to promote shared 
understanding and unity of effort. At the organization level, the KM CWG consists of the 
KMO, KM Cell, and KM representatives. As appropriate, invite the Air Operations Center 
Weapons System, Request for Information, Common Operational Picture, and Security 
Managers, as well as Foreign Disclosure Officer, and Portal Administrator to participate in 
KM CWG meetings. The KM CWG will: 
3.4.4.1.  Build the organization KIM Plan, Strategy, and key performance indicators 
(metrics). 
3.4.4.2.  Identify and validate information exchange requirements. 
3.4.4.3.  Coordinate and resolve knowledge and information management issues. 
3.4.5.  MAJCOM and AFCHQ Command Staff Offices and Directorates; Air Operations 
Center Division Chiefs, Wing Staff Office Chiefs, Group and Squadrons.  These senior 
leaders will: 
3.4.5.1.  Define information exchange requirements and enforce the KIM Plan. 
3.4.5.2.  Appoint in writing seasoned stakeholders to serve as primary/alternate Knowledge 
Management Representatives (KMR) to the KM CWG. 
3.4.5.3.  Ensure lessons identified are converted to lessons learned. (T-1). 
3.4.5.4.  Receive updates from their KMR on process maturity and effectiveness for areas 
to which they are assigned responsibility. 
 
 
16 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
3.4.6.  Knowledge Management Representatives (KMRs).  KMRs serve as members of the 
KM CWG tasked with facilitating KM within their respective organizations. The KMRs are 
key to managing a KM program designed to meet their organization or sections’ needs. KMRs 
will: 
3.4.6.1.  Keep MAJCOM and AFCHQ Command Staff Office Chiefs and Directors; Air 
Operations Center Division Chiefs; Wing Staff Office Chiefs, Group and Squadron 
Commanders apprised of their respective section’s KM program and parent organization’s 
requirements. 
3.4.6.2.  Represent the section at the organization’s KM CWG and bring section KM 
matters to the KM CWG for discussion and assistance 
3.4.6.3.  Facilitate KIM Plan implementation and continuous process improvement. (T-3). 
3.4.6.4.  Oversee building and maintenance of section’s “Battle Book” (aka continuity 
book) to reduce knowledge loss with turnover of personnel and to quickly spin up new 
members and augmentees supporting exercises/contingencies. 
3.4.6.5.  Leverage KM capabilities to improve process efficiency and effectiveness, 
knowledge sharing and collaboration internal to the organization and with mission partners. 
(T-3). 
3.4.6.6.  Assist organization with capturing, organizing, storing, and sharing information 
and knowledge to comply with laws, regulations, and policies. (T-3). 
3.4.7.  Tiger Teams.  With the approval of the CKO, the KMO facilitates the formation of 
cross-functional Tiger Teams comprised of SMEs. Their purpose is to develop and report on 
potential courses of action to address issues identified by the CKO. Teams shall be limited in 
scope, charter, and duration and will be disestablished when complete. Process improvement 
events may be used as a substitute. 
3.4.8.  Installation Knowledge and Information Management Office (KIMO).   The KIMO 
located in the installation Communications Squadron has two functions:  knowledge and 
Information Management. Pending approval of the installation commander, KM or KIMO may 
be realigned/assigned to the Director of Staff or Plans and Programs. Commanders, designated 
POCs, and Records Professionals, along with the Knowledge Operators, shall assist 
organizational personnel with conducting searches of and properly preserving information, 
including electronically stored information.  KIMOs will: 
3.4.8.1.  Be the link between enterprise information services, installation knowledge 
services, and organizations. 
3.4.8.2.  Be the Base Records Manager (Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Section 
508 of the Rehabilitation Act), Publications/Forms Manager, and Administrative 
Communications Manager. These are functions of the IM Office/Officer and normally 
reside with the communications squadron.  Note: The Privacy/Freedom of Information Act 
Officer may be found as a separate position at many locations 
3.4.8.3.  Develop the Wing KIM Plan in accordance with CJCSM 3130.03A. (T-0). 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
17 
3.4.8.4.  Document support capabilities provided to tenant organizations, geographically 
separated units, and mission separated units in a Memorandum of Understanding or 
Memorandum of Agreement. 
3.5.  Knowledge Workers.   All AF employees (to include military, civilians, and contractors) are 
knowledge workers and essential to the success of the overall mission, to include developing their 
units into learning organizations by applying KM core competencies, incorporating best practices 
and innovative solutions into everyday processes. All knowledge workers will: 
3.5.1.  Apply KM competencies in daily work and seek to improve process efficiency and 
effectiveness through collaboration, information sharing, KM best practices, and enterprise 
service tools. 
3.5.2.  Assist organizations with capturing, organizing, storing, and sharing information and 
knowledge to comply with laws, regulations, and policies. (T-1). 
3.5.3.  Actively seek guidance from the KMR for assistance with KIM issues. 
3.5.4.  Have awareness of the benefits analytics can bring to their area of expertise. 
 
 
18 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Chapter 4 
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CORE COMPETENCIES 
4.1.  Requirements. 
4.1.1.  Training may be locally developed, leveraged from other AF/DoD entities, or acquired 
from commercial sources as long as course content contains the core competencies to develop 
service members and civilians. 
4.1.2.  This guidance provides a minimum set of competencies that KM training programs must 
include in order to be certified and accepted cross-organizationally throughout the DoD.  
Organizations are not required, nor expected, to limit themselves to this content but should 
provide them at a minimum in any developed or acquired training. Units should expand the 
scope of their content as the mission requires. Required competencies are detailed in Table 
A2.1 KM Core Competencies. Understanding how to implement and manage KM 
responsibilities and duties is gained through learning and applying these core competencies. 
4.2.  Focus Areas.   Training competencies are grouped into five focus areas. The first is based on 
successful execution of a KM program and the other four are based on outcomes that KM enables. 
4.2.1.  KM Program Management. KM Program Management. The governance and processes 
supported by organizational policy, that support the decision cycle, and whose practices are 
embedded in the culture of the organization’s personnel. 
4.2.2.  Shared Understanding. Collaborative organization approach to improve cross-
functional communication and increases organization-wide situational awareness while 
reducing stove-pipes making data, information and products visible. 
4.2.3.  Decision Support. An improved process that reduces time to decisions by making data 
and information available while producing better quality decisions as part of the decision cycle. 
4.2.4.  Enhance Velocity. Organizations move at a speed dictated by the decision cycle.  KM 
seeks to accelerate and enhance mission and organizational performance by creating effective 
and efficient decision support while reducing process wastes (i.e., duplication of effort, etc.). 
4.2.5.  Agile Learning. Create agile learning organizations that produce value by using 
dynamic and iterative techniques, such as collaboration, cycle time acceleration, rapid solution 
implementation, feedback reviews and action, and change management to enhance learning 
and performance. 
4.3.  Roles. 
4.3.1.  Leadership. Personnel positioned in decision roles throughout the organization’s chain 
of command. General examples include, but are not limited to: Commander, Director, Division 
Chief, and Branch Chief. Some key leadership roles that directly control or influence the 
success of KM in an organization include the Chief of Staff, Chief Knowledge Officer, Chief 
Information Officer, Chief Data Officer, and Knowledge Management Officer. 
4.3.2.  KM Practitioner. Personnel officially assigned to a billet whose primary duty 
description is the delivery of KM services to an organization. 
4.3.3.  Knowledge Worker. All personnel generating or interpreting information. 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
19 
4.4.  Training Levels. 
4.4.1.  Training levels convey the expected level of understanding or execution associated with 
each competency. Each level builds upon previous levels, (i.e. someone with expertise and the 
ability to train others in an area should inherently have proficiency to execute the competency 
and awareness of its concepts and ideas). See Table A2.1 Knowledge Management Core 
Competencies Table for further information. 
4.4.2.  Competency Levels. 
4.4.2.1.  Awareness (A) – General knowledge of concepts and ideas regarding the 
competency. 
4.4.2.2.  Proficiency (P) – Ability to execute competency against their tasks without 
assistance. 
4.4.2.3.  Expertise (E) – Ability to train and educate others in the competency. 
 
WILLIAM E. MARION II, SES, DAF 
Deputy Chief Information Officer 
20 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
AFI 1-2, Commander’s Responsibilities, 8 May 2014 
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011 
CJCSM 3130.03A, Planning and Execution Planning Formats and Guidance, 4 February 2019 
DoD 5015.02-STD, Electronic Records Management Software Applications Design Criteria 
Standard, April 25, 2007 
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense (DOD), Dictionary of Military and Associated 
Terms, (As of June 2019) 
International Standards Organization 30401-2018 Knowledge Management System 
DoD Instruction 5000.75, Business Systems Requirements and Acquisition, February 2, 2017 
DoD Directive 7045.20, Capability Portfolio Management, September 25, 2008 
Joint Publication 3-33, Joint Task Force Headquarters, 31 January 2018 
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, 17 January 2017, IC1 22 October 2018 
Joint Publication 3-12, Cyberspace Operations, 8 June 2018 
U.S. Department of Homeland Security Instruction Manual 262-12-001-01, DHS Lexicon Terms 
and Definitions, 2017 Edition – Revision 2, October 16, 2017 
Joint Vision 2020, America’s Military: Preparing for Tomorrow, June 2000 
Air Force Information Dominance Flight Plan, Operating In, Thru, and From Cyberspace, 
February 2017 
CNSS Instruction 4009, Committee on National Security Systems Glossary, April 6, 2015 
United States Government Compendium of Interagency and Associated Terms (USG 
Compendium, July 2018 
United States Code 44 Section 3301 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF—Air Force 
AFCHQ—Air Force Component Headquarters 
AFKMCWG—Air Force Knowledge Management Capability Working Group 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
21 
EA—Enterprise Architecture 
IM—Information Management 
IMO—Information Management Office or Officer 
KIM—Knowledge and Information Management 
KIMC—Knowledge and Information Management Cell 
KIMO—Knowledge and Information Management Office 
KM—Knowledge Management 
KMCWG—Knowledge Management Capability Working Group 
KMO—Knowledge Management Officer or Office 
KMR—Knowledge Management Representative 
KMWG—Knowledge Management Working Group 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
Terms 
Capability—The ability the organization needs to deliver requisite products and services and 
provide value. (Source: DoDI 5000.75, Business Systems Requirements and Acquisition). The 
ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions through a combination 
of means and ways across doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, 
personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) to perform a set of tasks to execute a specified course of 
action. (Source: DoDD 7045.20, Capability Portfolio Management). 
Cell—A subordinate organization formed around a specific process, capability, or activity within 
a designated larger organization of a headquarters. (Source: Joint Publication 3-33, Joint Task 
Force Headquarters), (JP 3-33). 
Collaboration—The interaction among people at two or more locations who are developing 
knowledge for the same purpose. It may occur face to face in a small group or online using 
collaborative environments. Collaboration is an excellent means of transferring both tacit and 
explicit knowledge. 
Commander’s Critical Information Requirement—An information requirement identified by 
the commander as being critical to facilitating timely decision-making.  (Source: Joint Publication 
3-0, (JP 3-0). 
Common Operating Picture—A single identical display of relevant information shared by more 
than one command that facilitates collaborative planning and assists all echelons to achieve 
situational awareness.  (DOD Dictionary. Source: JP 3-0). 
Competency—An important skill that is needed to do a job. The ability to do something 
successfully or efficiently. 
Continuous Process Improvement—Principles and tools designed to enable Airmen to change 
the day-to-day operating style to integrate continuous process improvement into the full spectrum 
of Air Force operations. 
22 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Cyberspace Operations—The employment of cyberspace capabilities where the primary purpose 
is to achieve objectives or effects in or through cyberspace (JP 3-0). Cyberspace Operations are 
categorized as Offensive Cyberspace Operations (OCO), Defensive Cyberspace Operations 
(DCO), and DoD Information Networks (DoDIN) Operations (DoDIN Ops).  (Source: Joint 
Publication 3-12, Cyberspace Operations). 
Data—value or set of values that provides a representation of facts, concepts, or instructions in a 
formalized manner suitable for communication, interpretation, or processing by humans or by 
automatic means any representations such as characters or analog quantities to which meaning is 
or might be assigned. (Source: DHS Lexicon, Terms) (Additional data can be found at:  
https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/18_0116_MGMT_DHS-Lexicon.pdf. 
(Also USG Compendium) 
Data Management—practice of putting into place policies, procedures and best practices to 
ensure that data is understandable, trusted, visible, accessible and interoperable Data Management 
functions include processes and procedures that cover planning, modeling, security, information 
assurance, access control, and quality. Outcomes of Data Management include the improvement 
of data quality and assurance, enablement of information sharing within and outside of DHS, and 
the fostering of data reuse by minimizing data redundancy. (Source: DHS Lexicon, Terms) (Also 
USG Compendium) 
Decision Superiority—better decisions arrived at and implemented faster than an opponent can 
react, or in a noncombat situation, at a tempo that allows the force to shape the situation or react 
to changes and accomplish its mission.  (Source: Joint Vision 2020 Part a, America’s Military: 
Preparing for Tomorrow). 
Effect—1. The physical or behavioral state of a system that results from an action, a set of actions, 
or another effect.  2. The result, outcome, or consequence of an action.  3. A change to a condition, 
behavior, or degree of freedom.  (Source: JP 3-0) 
Enterprise Architecture—The explicit description and documentation of the current and desired 
relationships among business and management processes and supporting resources (e.g., IT, 
personnel). It describes the "current architecture" and "target architecture," to include the rules, 
standards, and systems life cycle information to optimize and maintain the environment which the 
agency wishes to create and maintain by managing its IT portfolio. The Enterprise architecture 
(EA) must also provide a strategy that will enable the agency to support its current state and also 
act as the roadmap for transition to its target environment. These transition processes will include 
an agency's capital planning and investment control processes, agency EA planning processes, and 
agency systems life cycle methodologies. The EA will define principles and goals and set direction 
on such issues as the promotion of interoperability, open systems, public access, and compliance 
with Government Paperwork Elimination Act, end user satisfaction, and IT security. The agency 
must support the EA with a complete inventory of agency information resources, including 
personnel, equipment, and funds devoted to information resources management and information 
technology, at an appropriate level of detail. 
Enterprise Information Services—A combination of enterprise information technologies and 
services which provide knowledge management capabilities, such as information discovery, 
collaboration, tailored presentation, and contextual application. 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
23 
Functional Integration—Functional integration refers to the mission alignment of full-time and 
part-time personnel, training, and/or resources within an organization or between organizations.  
Commanders functionally integrate across the Air Force to maintain readiness and efficiently 
organize, train, and equip forces. 
Information—Facts, data, or instructions in any medium or form. Also the meaning that a human 
assigns to data by means of the known conventions used in their representation. 
Information Dominance—The operational advantage gained from the ability to collect, control, 
exploit, and defend information to optimize decision-making and maximize warfighting effects.  
(Source: Air Force Information Dominance Flight Plan) 
Information Life Cycle—The stages through which information passes, typically characterized 
as creation or collection, processing, dissemination, use, storage, and disposition. 
Information Management—The planning, budgeting, manipulating, and controlling of 
information throughout its life cycle (CNSSI 4009, Committee on National Security Systems 
Glossary).  The function of managing an organization’s information resources for the handling of 
data and information acquired by one or many different systems, individuals, and organizations in 
a way that optimizes access by all who have a share in that data or a right to that information. Also 
called IM. (Source: JP 3-0) 
Knowledge—information being placed in context (human transformation) based on facts and an 
ascribed meaning (human experience, etc.). 
Knowledge (Explicit)—written or otherwise documented knowledge in media that can be 
organized or stored, whether in digital form or other. 
Knowledge (Tacit)—comprehension gained through study, experience, and practice. 
Knowledge Management—the discipline focused on integrating people and processes enabled 
by tools throughout the information life cycle in order to create shared understanding and increase 
organizational performance and decision-making.  (DoD Chief Information Officer is submitting 
this term and its definition for inclusion in the DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms). 
Metadata—Information describing the characteristics of data; data or information about data; 
descriptive information about an organization’s data, data activities, systems, and holdings. 
Operational Environment—A composite of the conditions, circumstances, and influences that 
affect the employment of capabilities and bear on the decisions of the commander. 
Outcome—Level of performance or achievement, i.e. impacts, associated with the process or 
output. Quantification of performance and assessment of the process.  Answers, “what difference 
did it make?” 
Record—According to Title 44 United States Code Section 3301, Definition of records, the term 
“includes all recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics, made or received by a 
Federal agency under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and 
preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of 
the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the 
United States Government or because of the informational value of data in them; and (B) does not 
include— (i) library and museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for reference or 
exhibition purposes; or (ii) duplicate copies of records preserved only for convenience. 
24 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Records Management—Managerial activities involved with respect to records creation, records 
maintenance and use, and records disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper 
documentation of the policies and transactions of the federal government and effective and 
economical management of agency operations. Also called records administration. 
Situational Awareness—Immediate knowledge of the conditions of the operation, constrained 
geographically and in time. 
Situational Understanding—The product of applying analysis and judgment to relevant 
information to determine the relationships among the mission variables to facilitate decision- 
making. 
Workflow—Tasks, procedural steps, organizations or people, required input and output 
information, and tools needed for each step in a business process. 
 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
25 
Attachment 2 
KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CORE COMPETENCIES TABLE 
Table A2.1.  Knowledge Management Core Competencies Table. 
 
Competency 
Description 
Leader 
KM 
Practitioner 
Knowledge 
Worker 
Agile Learning 
Best Practice 
Identification/ 
Sharing 
A best practice is a method or 
technique that has 
consistently shown results 
superior to those achieved 
with other means, and that is 
used as a benchmark. In 
addition, a "best" practice can 
evolve to become better as 
improvements are discovered. 
A 
P 
A 
Change 
Management 
Change Management refers to 
any approach to transitioning 
individuals, teams, and 
organizations using methods 
intended to re-direct the use 
of resources, business 
process, budget allocations, or 
other modes of operation that 
significantly reshape an 
organization. Organizational 
Change Management 
considers the full organization 
and what needs to change. 
A 
P 
- 
Critical Thinking 
Critical thinking is the ability 
to think clearly and rationally 
about what to do or what to 
believe. It includes the ability 
to engage in reflective and 
independent thinking. 
Someone with critical 
thinking skills is able to 
understand the logical 
connections between ideas. 
A 
P 
A 
Knowledge Capture 
Knowledge capture is the 
process of gathering, 
collecting, and codifying an 
organization's knowledge and 
know-how so that it can be 
P 
E 
P 
26 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
stored, shared, reused, and 
leveraged.  It is the act of 
taking tacit (in our heads) 
knowledge and making it 
explicit (written down for 
others). 
Lessons Learned 
As a practice, lessons learned 
includes the processes 
necessary for identification, 
documentation, validation, 
and dissemination of lessons 
learned. Utilization and 
incorporation of those 
processes includes 
identification of applicable 
lessons learned, 
documentation of lessons 
learned, archiving lessons 
learned, distribution to 
appropriate personnel, 
identification of actions that 
will be taken as a result of the 
lesson learned, and follow-up 
to ensure that appropriate 
actions were taken.  
P 
P 
P 
Decision Cycle 
7-min Drills 
A written charter for a 
meeting, usually in single 
slide in a concise format that 
is used to "explain...why a 
particular cross-functional 
staff element/event is 
necessary and how it supports 
the commander's decision 
cycle…." 7-min drills capture 
purpose and authority, 
agenda, proposed 
membership, event location 
and timing, required product 
inputs and outputs and are the 
building blocks for battle 
rhythm mapping. 
A 
E 
A 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
27 
Battle Rhythm 
Mapping/ 
Management 
A deliberate daily cycle of 
command, staff, and unit 
activities intended to 
synchronize current and 
future operations.  
Establishing a battle rhythm 
management and change 
control process that requires 
JTF proponents for cross-
functional staff elements to 
justify event establishment or 
modification is essential to 
create deliberate human 
interaction that supports the 
development of new 
knowledge and create 
decisions. 
A 
E 
A 
Decision Support 
Systems 
A decision support system 
(DSS) is an information 
system that supports business 
or organizational decision-
making activities. DSSs serve 
the management, operations 
and planning levels of an 
organization (usually mid and 
higher management) and help 
people make decisions about 
problems that may be rapidly 
changing and not easily 
specified in advance—i.e. 
unstructured and semi-
structured decision problems. 
Decision support systems can 
be either fully computerized 
or human-powered, or a 
combination of both. 
A 
P 
A 
Knowledge/Concept 
Mapping 
A knowledge map is a visual 
representation of an 
organization's knowledge 
resources.  While process 
maps answer the 'How' and 
'What'; knowledge maps 
answer the 'Who', 'Where' and 
'When'. 
A 
E 
A 
28 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Meeting 
Management 
Meetings are an essential part 
of the life of every 
organization and your ability 
to run effective meetings with 
your management skills is a 
critical part of your success in 
meeting management.  Topics 
would include things such as 
setting agendas, time 
management, task recap, and 
help to ensure meetings 
provide results and don't just 
suck up time. 
P 
E 
P 
Enhance Performance 
Analytics 
Analytics is the discovery and 
communication of meaningful 
patterns in data. Especially 
valuable in areas rich with 
recorded information, 
analytics relies on the 
simultaneous application of 
statistics, computer 
programming and operations 
research to quantify 
performance. Analytics often 
favors data visualization to 
communicate insight. 
A 
P 
- 
Continuous Process 
Improvement  
Continuous improvement as a 
gradual never-ending change 
which is: “... focused on 
increasing the effectiveness 
and/or efficiency of an 
organization to fulfil its policy 
and objectives. It is not 
limited to quality initiatives. 
Improvement in business 
strategy, business results, 
customer, and employee-
supplier relationships can be 
subject to continual 
improvement. Put simply, it 
means ‘getting better all the 
time’.” 
A 
P 
- 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
29 
Expertise 
Tracking/Marketing 
Skills management is the 
practice of understanding, 
developing and deploying 
people and their skills. Well-
implemented skills 
management should identify 
the skills that job roles 
require, the skills of 
individual employees, and any 
gap between the two.  
Marketing and sharing of 
these skills across the 
enterprise encourages 
collaboration and 
performance improvement. 
P 
P 
P 
Innovation 
Management 
Innovation management 
includes a set of tools that 
allow managers and engineers 
to cooperate with a common 
understanding of processes 
and goals. Innovation 
management allows the 
organization to respond to 
external or internal 
opportunities, and use its 
creativity to introduce new 
ideas, processes or products. 
P 
P 
P 
KM Assessments 
Leveraging KM maturity 
models against utilization of 
KM principles across the 
organization. 
- 
E 
- 
Knowledge 
Engineering 
Knowledge engineering (KE) 
refers to all technical, 
scientific/social aspects 
involved in building, 
maintaining, and using 
knowledge-based systems. 
- 
P 
- 
Metrics and 
Measurement 
Developing and applying 
objective qualitative and 
quantitative measures 
(Measures of Performance & 
Measures of Effectiveness) 
through the lens of a maturity 
model as an assessment tool. 
Posture the AF in applying 
knowledge management as a 
A 
P 
A 
30 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
critical enabler to multi-
domain command and control. 
Project Management 
Awareness of project 
management body of 
knowledge aspects most 
useful to performance 
improvement, to include 
scope statement, and work 
breakdown structure. 
- 
A 
- 
Roles/Responsibility 
Capture (RACI) 
A RACI chart is a matrix of 
all the activities or decision-
making authorities undertaken 
in an organization set against 
all the people or roles. At 
each intersection of activity 
and role it is possible to 
assign somebody responsible, 
accountable, consulted or 
informed for that activity or 
decision. 
A 
E 
P 
Task Tracking 
Methodologies 
KM is often asked to define 
and design task trackers.  
Ensure process owners and 
stakeholders are involved in 
definition and design.  Apply 
best practices and lessons 
learned to ensure tools meet 
the need. 
A 
P 
A 
Work methodology 
(agile, Kanban, 
capture) 
These work methods are an 
iterative and incremental 
method of management. They 
focuses on helping teams in 
an evolving landscape and 
maintaining a focus on the 
rapid delivery of business 
value. The methodologies 
used in Agile processes 
(Scrum, XP, Kanban, and 
others) all follow the Agile 
Manifesto that is based on 
continuous improvement, 
flexibility, input of the team, 
and the delivery of results 
with high quality. 
A 
E 
P 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
31 
KM Program Management 
Establishment of 
KM Battle Rhythm 
events 
Establishment of a KM 
Working Group and KM 
Board to synchronize with the 
overall organization battle 
rhythm to endorse and support 
KM implementation and 
initiatives. 
A 
E 
- 
KM Doctrine 
Provide a breakdown of key 
elements in all levels of your 
organizational chain of 
command that espouse KM 
principles.  This should be a 
set of KM values such as a 
focus on sharing knowledge, 
connecting people to 
expertise, promoting trust, 
and mutual understanding. 
A 
E 
P 
KM Fundamentals 
Describe knowledge 
management theory, the 
relationship between KM, IM, 
and DM, a culture of sharing, 
and strategic learning.  May 
include a history of 
knowledge management, 
descriptions, concepts, and 
definitions related to KM. 
A 
E 
A 
KM Governance 
There various references and 
prescriptive guidance from 
higher organizations relating 
to execution of KM.  Various 
JP, CJCS publications, and 
service documents refer to 
elements of KM execution 
and its importance to 
organization performance. 
A 
E 
- 
KM Plan/Strategy 
A Knowledge Management 
plan takes the broad topic of 
Knowledge Management, and 
turns it into a specific 
definition, tailored for the 
organization, of who should 
be doing what, by when, 
using which tools, in order to 
manage knowledge for the 
benefit of mission tasks, and 
A 
E 
- 
32 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
for the benefit of the 
organization at large. 
KM Roles 
Stratification and 
identification of individuals 
from leadership through 
action officer who will 
manage and execute KM 
throughout and organization 
and up and down their chain 
of command.  These can 
include, but are not limited to 
Chief of Staff (CoS), Chief 
Knowledge Officer (CKO), 
Knowledge Management 
Officer (KMO), KM 
Specialist, KM 
Representatives, or KM 
Engineers. 
A 
E 
A 
KM Training 
Development, 
implementation, and 
maintenance of KM oriented 
training to your organization. 
- 
E 
- 
Knowledge Worker 
Concept 
A knowledge worker is 
anyone who works for a 
living at the tasks of 
developing or using 
knowledge. For example, a 
knowledge worker might be 
someone who works at any of 
the tasks of planning, 
acquiring, searching, 
analyzing, organizing, storing, 
programming, distributing, 
marketing, or otherwise 
contributing to the 
transformation and commerce 
of information and those 
(often the same people) who 
work at using the knowledge 
so produced. 
P 
E 
P 
Leadership 
Endorsement/ 
Support 
Educating the Chief of Staff 
and other senior leaders about 
the importance of KM to the 
decision cycle and 
- 
P 
- 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
33 
organizational performance in 
order to get buy in for 
resources and policy support. 
Shared Understanding 
Brainstorming 
Methods 
A framework of processes to 
aid in spontaneous group 
discussion to produce ideas 
and ways of solving problems 
that is all inclusive while 
generating high volumes of 
ideas in a short period of time.  
It should also include methods 
for sorting, grouping, and 
prioritizing ideas for action. 
A 
E 
A 
Collaboration Tools 
& Environments 
A collaboration tool or 
environment helps people to 
collaborate. The purpose of a 
collaboration tool or 
environment is to support a 
group of two or more 
individuals to accomplish a 
common goal or objective 
they have set themselves. 
Collaboration tools or 
environments can be non-
technological in nature such 
as paper, flipchart, post-it 
notes, whiteboards, and open 
seating environments or 
purely based on computer 
systems.  Something even 
more common these days are 
tools enabled through 
complex and often web-based 
collaborative software like 
Wiki or SharePoint that 
perfectly integrate in an agile 
work environment and make 
us more efficient.  The 
Collaborative Information 
Environment (CIE) is part of 
this competency. 
A 
E 
P 
34 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Communication 
Plans 
A communication plan is a 
policy-driven approach to 
providing stakeholders with 
information. The plan 
formally defines who should 
be given specific information, 
when that information should 
be delivered and what 
communication channels will 
be used to deliver the 
information. 
A 
P 
A 
Communication 
Skills 
Communication skills is an 
umbrella term covering 
several specific types of skills 
involved in receiving 
messages and effectively 
delivering them to others. 
Primary skills that involve 
communication include 
listening, articulation, a 
confident presence, nonverbal 
strategies and interpersonal 
interaction.  These skills are 
essential in tasks such as exit 
interviews which capture tacit 
knowledge from departing 
personnel. 
- 
P 
- 
Communities of 
Practice 
(virtual/physical) 
A community of practice is a 
group of people who share a 
craft and/or a profession.  It 
can evolve naturally because 
of the members' common 
interest in a particular domain 
or area, or it can be created 
deliberately with the goal of 
gaining knowledge related to 
a specific field. 
A 
P 
A 
Content 
Management 
Content management, is a set 
of processes and technologies 
that supports the collection, 
managing, and publishing of 
information in any form or 
medium. When stored and 
accessed via computers, this 
information may be more 
specifically referred to as 
A 
E 
P 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
35 
digital content, or simply as 
content. 
Dashboards 
Dashboards are single screens 
with critical information 
which give your users a 
unified view of the data that 
matters.  KM assists in the 
design process of dashboard 
content in support of decision-
making.  This is requirements 
development oriented and 
NOT technical 
implementation. 
A 
P 
A 
Knowledge 
Dissemination 
The transfer of knowledge 
within and across settings, 
with the expectation that the 
knowledge will be "used" 
conceptually (as learning, 
enlightenment, or the 
acquisition of new 
perspectives or attitudes) or 
instrumentally, (in the form of 
modified or new practices.)  
Some other outcomes include: 
(1) increased awareness; (2) 
ability to make informed 
choices among alternatives; 
and (3) the exchange of 
information; materials or 
perspectives. 
P 
E 
P 
Portal Content 
Design 
Assist in the design process of 
information portals to 
increase awareness, 
understanding, and support 
leaning forward in decision- 
making.  This is requirements 
support and NOT technical 
implementation, but a good 
understanding of what 
information supports unit 
mission awareness and 
decision elements is essential. 
A 
P 
A 
36 
AFMAN33-396  12 AUGUST 2019 
Social Business 
Platforms 
Forms of electronic 
communication (such as 
websites for social 
networking and 
microblogging) through 
which users create online 
communities to share 
information, ideas, personal 
messages, and other content 
(such as videos).  Tools such 
as SharePoint come built in 
with social networking 
features that aid groups in 
building communities of 
practice on the fly and 
increasing awareness of 
organization activity while 
bonding teams together. 
 
NOTE: The platforms do not 
include capabilities described 
in DoDI 8550.01 under PAO 
purview. 
A 
E 
P 
Visualization of 
Information 
Assisting in the presentation 
of information in a 
consumable form that aids 
shared awareness, 
understanding, and decision-
making by reducing the 
cognitive burden on people 
for processing and fusing data 
by doing data analytics in a 
way that works for them 
(user-centered design).  Such 
presentations increase process 
effectiveness, efficiency, 
decision quality and flow, as 
well as collaboration.  
Includes PowerPoint and 
other collaborative tools. 
A 
E 
P 
 
 
