BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE MANUAL 17-1402 
20 JUNE 2018 
Cyberspace 
CLINGER-COHEN ACT (CCA) 
COMPLIANCE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: SAF/CIO A6XA 
 
Supersedes: 
AFMAN33-407,  
                        24 October 2012 
Certified by: SAF/CIO A6X,  
(Arthur G. Hatcher, SES) 
Pages: 15 
 
 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 17-1, Information Dominance, 
Governance, and Management.  It provides guidance for all Air Force military, civilians, and 
contractor personnel under contract by the Department of Defense (DoD) who are responsible 
for compliance and reporting for Subtitle III of Title 40 of the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 
1996; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System (12 
May 2003); Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense 
Acquisition System; DoDI 5000.74, Acquisition of Services; and DoDI 5000.75, Business System 
Requirements and Acquisition.  This guidance clarifies the application of the CCA confirmation 
and compliance requirements to AF programs; delineates the AF CCA compliance and reporting 
process with clearly defined process steps; and provides the latest CCA requirements, guidance, 
and techniques for achieving CCA compliance. 
This manual applies to all Air Force Active Duty Commands, Reserve, and Air National Guard 
units.  This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended Send 
recommended changes or comments to the Office of Primary Responsibility, Secretary of the Air 
Force, Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer, Policy and Resources 
Directorate, (SAF/CIO A6XA), 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1800, using 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Recommended changes or 
comments 
can 
also 
be 
sent 
via 
e-mail 
to 
usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a6xa-
workflow@mailbox.mil.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in 
this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of 
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) 
2 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)”.  Tiering compliance requirements do not apply to this 
AFMAN 17-1402. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This rewrite incorporates the new CCA compliance requirements directed by the revised DoDI 
5000.02, DoDI 5000.74, and DoDI 5000.75.  The process for evaluating and reporting CCA 
compliance has been changed; the requirement for a CCA compliance report ("i.e., the narrative) 
has been eliminated; multiple memoranda signed by key managers associated with their 
respective area of authority for the program are to be submitted; and a Program Summary and 
memoranda signed by Program Managers are now required instead of a signature page in the 
CCA compliance report.   Detailed information on compliance with the 11 CCA elements and 
updated guidance addressing cost, interoperability, cybersecurity, and the acquisition of services 
is presented in the Clinger-Cohen Act Implementation Guide. 
1.  Introduction. 
1.1.  This document provides guidance for compliance and reporting for the Clinger-Cohen 
Act (CCA) of 1996 (40 United States Code § 11101-11704, hereinafter referred to as 
“CCA”); DoDD 5000.01; DoDI 5000.02; DoDI 5000.74; and DoDI 5000.75.  DoDI 5000.02 
designates the Component CIO and the Milestone Decision Authority as the approval 
authorities for CCA.  This AFMAN provides procedures for CCA implementation by AF 
Program Managers and the Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer of 
the Air Force (SAF/CIO A6) as directed in AFPD 17-1, Information Dominance, 
Governance, and Management (12 April 2016).  The primary purpose of a successful CCA 
compliance review is to confirm for the Milestone Decision Authority that the program has 
successfully demonstrated compliance with the CCA.  SAF/CIO A6XA records CCA 
compliance in the Air Force’s Information Technology Investment Portfolio System which is 
then transmitted to the DoD Information Technology Portfolio Repository.  A Glossary of 
References and Supporting Information is presented in Attachment 1. 
1.2.  The Clinger-Cohen Act is the principle Federal law on IT acquisition.  Originally 
enacted as Public Law 104-106, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, 
Division E, Information Technology Management Reform, the law’s primary purpose is to 
provide a framework for the role of the CIO in Federal agencies and describe how the CIO is 
to be involved in IT investments or IT acquisitions that support an agency’s mission.  The 
Clinger-Cohen Act directs the agency CIO to “advise the head of the agency regarding 
whether to continue, modify, or terminate a program or project” to ensure that IT is acquired 
and information resources are managed in a manner that implements the policies and 
procedures of CCA (40 USC § 1425, Agency Chief Information Officer).  Implementation of 
CCA in the Air Force is the responsibility of the Chief, Information Dominance and Chief 
Information Officer of the Air Force (SAF/CIO A6).  (The term “investment” is used here to 
identify an AF activity, product, or service that enables the acquisition, procurement, 
development, management, operation, lease, or closure of IT.  Investment is used in the 
broadest sense, i.e., to include programs, projects, systems, business systems, family of 
systems, system of systems, and any other expenditures for IT or IT-related activities.) 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
3 
1.3.  CCA applies to all programs that acquire IT and/or IT Services.  As a statutory 
requirement, CCA compliance is not subject to waiver.  All programs acquiring IT (including 
technology refresh for programs in sustainment) need to undergo CCA compliance reporting 
(see Section 2.6 for further details on sustainment programs). 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities 
2.1.  Roles and responsibilities are delineated throughout the publication.  Specific 
information on the roles of the Program Manager, SAF/CIO A6, and SAF/FM are embedded 
in specific sections throughout this publication. 
3.  CCA Coverage of Programs Acquiring IT. 
3.1.  DoDI 5000.02 directs that Enclosure 11 on “Requirements Applicable to All Programs 
Containing Information Technology (IT)” applies to IT, National Security Systems, and 
Information Systems as well as Automated Information Systems.  The definitions of those 
terms are presented below. 
3.1.1.  IT “ . . . is any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, 
used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, 
management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or 
reception of data or information; includes computers, ancillary equipment (including 
imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and 
surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing 
unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including 
support services, and related resources). IT is equipment used by the DoD directly or is 
used by a contractor under a contract with the DoD that requires the use of that 
equipment. IT does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental 
to a federal contract.” 
3.1.2.  National Security Systems “. . . as defined in 44 U.S.C. § 3552, are 
telecommunications or information systems operated by or on behalf of the Federal 
Government, the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities, 
cryptologic activities related to national security, command and control of military forces, 
equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system, or, is critical to the 
direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions. NSS do not include systems that are 
used for routine administrative and business applications (including payroll, finance, and 
personnel management applications).” 
3.1.3.  Information systems “ . . . as defined in 44 U.S.C. § 3502, are a discrete set of 
information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, 
dissemination, or disposition of information.” 
3.1.4.  An Automated Information System, as defined in DoDI 5000.02, is “a system of 
computer hardware, computer software, data or telecommunications that performs 
functions such as collecting, processing, storing, transmitting, and displaying 
information.  Excluded are computer resources, both hardware and software, that are an 
integral part of a weapon or weapon system; used for highly sensitive classified programs 
(as determined by the Secretary of Defense); used for other highly sensitive information 
technology (IT) programs (as determined by the DoD CIO); or determined by the 
Defense Acquisition Executive or designee to be better overseen as a non-Automated 
4 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
Information System program (e.g., a program with a low ratio of research, development, 
and test and evaluation funding to total program acquisition costs or that requires 
significant hardware development).” 
3.2.  CCA is implemented through DoDI 5000.02, Tables 2 and 10 and Enclosure 11.  CCA 
compliance is mandatory for “... all programs that acquire IT, including NSS, at any 
acquisition category (ACAT) level” per DoDI 5000.02, Enclosure 11, and for Defense 
Business Systems, per DoDI 5000.75, Table 1.  Tables 2 and 10 in Enclosure 1 in DoDI 
5000.02 lists the information requirements (statutory and regulatory) for all milestones and 
phases for all Acquisition Category programs and the basic requirements for CCA 
compliance, respectively. 
3.3.  Table 2 of DoDI 5000.02 directs that CCA compliance is statutory for all programs that 
acquire IT and regulatory for other programs.  DoDI 5000.02 states that “For all programs 
that acquire IT, including NSS, at any acquisition category (ACAT) level, the Milestone 
Decision Authority will not initiate a program nor an increment of a program, or approve 
entry into any phase of the acquisition process that requires formal acquisition milestone 
approval, and the DoD Component will not award a contract for the applicable acquisition 
phase until: (1) The sponsoring DoD Component or program manager has satisfied the 
applicable acquisition phase-specific requirements of the CCA as shown in Table 10 in 
Enclosure 1 of this instruction; and (2) The Program Manager has reported CCA compliance 
to the MDA and the DoD Component Chief Information Officer (CIO), or their designee.” 
3.4.  CCA compliance is undertaken when a program acquires IT.  DoDI 5000.02 requires 
CCA compliance in time when a program is approaching its next Milestone Decision Review 
(Milestones A, B, and C, and Full Rate Production Decision/Full Deployment Decision or a 
major contract award consistent with DoDI 5000.02 and AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life-
Cycle Management).  CCA compliance for Defense Business Systems occurs at the 
appropriate Authority to Proceed decision point, especially the Acquisition, Limited 
Deployment and Full Deployment Authority to Proceed decision points, as addressed in 
DoDI 5000.75, and in conjunction with specific processes designed for Defense Business 
Systems, such as the Organizational Execution Plan.  There also may be inquiries or other 
processes that require the submission of CCA compliance documentation, such as AF Audit 
Agency or Inspector General requests. 
3.5.  DoDI 5000.02 (Table 2) states that “for IT programs employing an incremental 
development model (i.e., Model 3), the Program Manager will report CCA compliance at 
each Limited Deployment Decision Point.”  Program Managers managing Business 
Acquisition Category III Defense Business Systems can bundle selected Limited Deployment 
Decisions or releases into one CCA review in consultation with SAF/CIO A6XA and in 
conformance with the Model 3 approach described in DoDI 5000.02 (Sec 5c(3)(d)).  The 
Program Manager may submit one CCA review package for all identified Limited 
Deployment Decisions or releases if the program maintains a stable schedule and all of the 
CCA documentation submitted in support of that approach addresses all activities associated 
with the multiple Limited Deployment Decisions. 
 
 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
5 
3.6.  AF programs in sustainment (not undertaking a technology refresh) are to be registered 
in the Information Technology Investment Portfolio System.  A system or program in 
sustainment is one that spends Operations & Maintenance funds for continuing operations 
and current services, or sustainment-only activities.  This type of system is not allocating or 
spending any funds on development, modernization and enhancement or for new capabilities, 
i.e., an activity that results in improved capability or performance of the baseline activity.  
The Office of Management and Budget refers to these systems or programs as steady-state. 
3.7.  Additional CCA guidance for programs that acquire contracted services is provided in 
DoDI 5000.74.  Decisions on the approach taken for CCA compliance and whether an 
investment in IT services or the acquisition of contracted services is to be managed under 
DoDI 5000.74, DoDI 5000.75, or DoDI 5000.02 (as well as this AFMAN) are to be made in 
consultation with SAF/CIO A6.  CCA compliance actions for the acquisition of contracted 
services should be conducted for entire programs rather than for each contract in an 
acquisition effort.  Related contracts (such as software releases for a particular program) may 
be grouped together for CCA purposes. 
3.8.  Questions on the applicability of CCA compliance to a particular program or on 
statutory, regulatory, and milestone requirements for CCA are to be directed to the SAF/CIO 
A6XA Point of Contact.  Although the Program Manager is responsible for implementing 
CCA compliance, the determination of whether CCA is applicable to a particular program is 
the responsibility of SAF/CIO A6. 
4.  CCA Compliance Reporting and Review. 
4.1.  CCA Compliance Reporting.  CCA approval for Acquisition Category programs is 
achieved by verifying compliance with the 11 CCA elements that are identified in DoDI 
5000.02, Table 10.  For the purposes of reporting CCA compliance in the AF, the Program 
Manager will utilize the AF CCA Compliance Table in Attachment 2 of this AFMAN to 
report CCA compliance.  The Program Manager will list the documents that demonstrate 
compliance with the 11 CCA elements on the AF CCA Compliance Table.  For most AF 
programs that acquire IT, the AF utilizes a two-track process for reporting CCA compliance, 
regardless of program size, Acquisition Category, or mission area (see paragraphs  3.2 and  
3.3 below).  The exceptions to this compliance requirement are: 
4.1.1.  Defense Business Systems that conduct CCA compliance per this AFMAN and 
DoDI 5000.75 guidance and Acquisition of Services programs that conduct CCA 
compliance per DoDI 5000.74; 
4.1.2.  Defense Business Systems designated as Joint systems, which are approved for 
CCA by both the AF CIO and the DoD CIO; 
4.1.3.  Special Access Program/Special Access required or other classified programs, for 
which the documentation for all 11 CCA elements is reviewed by SAF/CIO A6 and 
SAF/FM (cost only); and 
 
 
6 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
4.1.4.  IT Special Interest programs, that may be any AF program, project, or activity that 
the AF CIO designates as such, regardless of where that program is in its program 
lifecycle (including technology projects, service contracts, supply contracts, or other IT 
investments that have not been designated as an Acquisition Category program and may 
be considered acquisition programs), and for which the CCA compliance process 
determinations are made on a case-by-case basis. 
4.2.  The first track requires the Program Manager to report compliance for the documents 
listed as evidence of compliance with CCA elements 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 10.  The Program 
Manager shall assess the compliance documentation to ensure that it addresses the 
information requirements as described in the CCA Implementation Guide on the CCA 
SharePoint site.  The Program Manager is responsible for ensuring that the program has met 
the requirements of CCA.  Program Managers should be familiar with the statutory, 
regulatory, and milestone requirements for programs that acquire IT and IT-related 
investments in DoDI 5000.02, DoDI 5000.74, and DoDI 5000.75, as noted in paragraphs  2.1 
and  2.2 of this AFMAN. 
4.3.  The second track is coordinated by SAF/CIO A6XA.  Although the Program Manager 
sends the links or documentation for all 11 CCA elements to SAF/CIO A6XA so that it may 
be checked for due diligence, the SAF/CIO A6 CCA review process will address the 
compliance documentation for only CCA elements 6, 8, 9, and 11 (except the Information 
Support Plan, which is submitted to the Global Information Grid Technical Guidance 
Federation system).  SAF/FM retains approval and policy responsibility for element 6 and 
SAF/CIO A6 retains approval and policy responsibility for elements 8, 9, and 11 of the CCA 
compliance table referenced in Attachment 2 of this AFMAN.  Please see the Clinger-Cohen 
Act Implementation Guide for more information on required documentation. 
4.4.  The Program Manager or the Program Management Office Point of Contact notifies the 
SAF/CIO A6XA Point of Contact that a CCA compliance package is forthcoming and then 
sends the following to SAF/CIO A6XA: 
4.4.1.  The AF CCA Compliance Table (Attachment 2); 
4.4.2.  Compliance documentation or links to compliance documentation for all CCA 
elements on the CCA Compliance Table (except for the Information Support Plan); 
4.4.3.  A CCA transmittal memorandum signed by the Program Manager (see the 
template in Attachment 3) 
4.4.4.  The CCA Program Summary Sheet (see the template in Attachment 4). 
4.5.  The SAF/CIO A6XA CCA Point of Contact and be contacted directly or through the 
CCA 
Workflow 
box 
usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.af-cio-clinger-cohen-
compliance@mail.mil. 
 
The 
Defense 
Acquisition 
Guidebook 
https://dag.dau.mil/Pages/Default.aspx and the USAF Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) 
Compliance Guidance Sharepoint Site https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10774/default.aspx 
contain authoritative sources, information, and templates to aid in preparing a CCA 
compliance package and in learning about DoDI 5000.02 and IT acquisition. 
 
 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
7 
4.6.  The CCA compliance documentation for CCA elements 6, 8, and 9 is reviewed by the 
CCA Subject Matter Experts and the program’s registration in the Information Technology 
Investment Portfolio System registration is approved by SAF/A6X.  SAF/CIO A6XA 
consolidates the Subject Matter Experts’ comments and sends them to the Program Manager 
or Program Management Office Point of Contact if there are issues that require resolution.  
SAF/CIO A6XA employs a rigorous, consistent, and repeatable review protocol. 
4.7.  If a Program Manager does not use the documents listed in the Applicable Program 
Documentation column of the AF CCA Compliance Table (Attachment 2) to demonstrate 
compliance, the Program Manager may cite other documents, actions, or events as proof of 
compliance.  Original reports, memoranda, spreadsheets, and architectural drawings may be 
used but the citation should be an original document, not a secondary source.  For example, 
an answer to a question in the Information Technology Investment Portfolio System is not a 
compliant response. 
4.8.  The supporting documents that a program lists in the Applicable Program 
Documentation column shall be (1) supplemented by information about where to find the 
particular paragraph(s), section(s), figure(s), and/or table(s) in the referenced document; (2) 
stand-alone or self-contained documents (i.e., not embedded), to the extent possible; and (3) 
provided to SAF/CIO A6XA as part of the CCA compliance package.  Documents in draft 
form may be sent to SAF/CIO A6XA at the start of the CCA review process but must be 
finalized before the Program Manager signs the CCA assertion memorandum (Attachment 
5) and sends that memorandum to SAF/CIO A6XA. 
4.9.  Where applicable and relevant to the upcoming milestone or contract award, documents 
may be re-used.  Re-used documentation should specifically address the program under CCA 
review.  New or updated documentation may be needed when the (1) information in the 
original documentation needs to be updated; (2) when the information in the original 
document does not adequately address the current effort; or (3) original document did not 
adequately address the CCA requirement. 
4.10.  Although DoDI 5000.02 allows for some CCA supporting documents to be subsumed 
into alternate acquisition documentation (i.e., the Analysis of Alternatives and Economic 
Analysis for Milestone A), the Cybersecurity Strategy and the Information Support Plan, or 
alternate architecture documentation, are to be provided to SAF/CIO A6XA as stand-alone 
documents prepared in accordance with this AFMAN and other specialized guidance 
documents.  DoDI 5000.75 allows for some flexibility in the Implementation Plan. 
4.11.  Programs that are applying to be National Security Systems should fill out the National 
Security Systems checklist (relying upon the guidance in NIST SP 800-59, Guideline for 
Identifying an Information System as a National Security System), and submit the signed 
checklist to SAF/CIO A6XA as soon as possible. 
4.12.  The Program Manager is responsible for ensuring that all CCA compliance 
documentation is submitted and approved in time for the scheduled milestone review or 
contract award.  Program Managers are encouraged to contact the CCA Point of Contact in 
SAF/CIO A6XA as early in the process as possible before the next milestone review so they 
can develop an ongoing dialogue, increase and improve the opportunities for early feedback, 
and facilitate access to the Subject Matter Experts for assistance.  The Program Manager 
should submit the CCA compliance documentation for CCA elements 6, 8, 9, and 11 to 
8 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
SAF/CIO A6XA at least four months before the milestone review or contract award is 
scheduled to allow sufficient time for review and revisions.  Documentation should be sent 
by e-mail to the SAF/CIO A6XA CCA Point of Contact or by using the U. S. Army Aviation 
and Missile Research Development and Engineering Center Safe Access File Exchange tool 
https://safe.amrdec.army.mil/safe. 
4.13.  At the completion of the CCA compliance review process, the Program Manager sends 
to SAF/CIO A6XA a CCA Assertion Memorandum that states that all 11 CCA elements are 
CCA compliant in accordance with this AFMAN and either DoDI 5000.02, DoDI 5000.74, 
or DoDI 5000.75 (Attachment 5). 
4.14.  The Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer will sign a CCA 
confirmation memorandum, signifying that the program is compliant with this AFMAN for 
the particular milestone, contract award, or Authority to Proceed decision point.  SAF/CIO 
A6XA deposits the confirmation memorandum into the Information Technology Investment 
Portfolio System, wherein the approval is transmitted to the DoD Information Technology 
Portfolio Repository, completing the CCA compliance process for that particular milestone 
or contract award activity. 
 
BRADFORD J. SHWEDO, Lt Gen, USAF 
Chief, Information Dominance and 
Chief Information Officer 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
9 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION. 
References 
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 17-1, Information Dominance, Governance, and 
Management, April 12, 2016 
Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 1996, Title 40 
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System (12 May 
2003) 
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition 
System (7 January 2015, Incorporating Change 3, August 10, 2017) 
DoDI 5000.74, Acquisition of Services (January 5, 2016) 
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
DoDI 5000.75, Business System Requirements and Acquisition (2 February 2017) 
CCA Implementation Guide, CCA SharePoint site 
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life-Cycle Management, 9 May 2017 
DoD Acquisition Guidebook 
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) Public Law (PL) 107-347 
DoDI 8580.1, Information Assurance in the Defense Acquisition System, 9 July 2004 
NIST SP 800-59, Guideline for Identifying an Information System as a National Security System  
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms. 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
 
10 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
Attachment 2 
AIR FORCE CLINGER-COHEN ACT COMPLIANCE TABLE 
Table A2.1.  Air Force Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance Table. 
(NAME OF PROGRAM) 
AIR FORCE CLINGER-COHEN ACT COMPLIANCE TABLE. 
 
Actions Required to Comply With the CCA 
(Subtitle III of title 40 of U.S. Code 
(Reference (p))) 
Applicable Program Documentation 
1.    Make a determination that the acquisition 
supports core, priority functions of the DoD. 
Initial Capabilities Document, IS Initial 
Capabilities Document, or urgent need 
requirements documents 
2.    Establish outcome-based performance 
measures linked to strategic goals. 
Initial Capabilities Document, IS Initial 
Capabilities Document, Capability 
Development Document, Capability Production 
Document, Analysis of Alternatives, 
Acquisition Program Baseline 
3.    Redesign the processes that the system 
supports to reduce costs, improve 
effectiveness and maximize the use of 
commercial off-the-shelf technology. 
Initial Capabilities Document, IS Initial 
Capabilities Document, Concept of 
Operations, Analysis of Alternatives, 
Business Process Reengineering 
4.    Determine that no private sector or 
government source can better support the 
function. 
Acquisition Strategy, Analysis of Alternatives 
5.    Conduct an analysis of alternatives. 
Analysis of Alternatives 
6.    Conduct an Economic Analysis that 
includes a calculation of the return on 
investment; or for non-AIS programs, 
conduct a life-cycle cost estimate 
Component Cost Estimate, Component Cost 
Position, Program Economic Analysis with 
an ROI for Automated Information System 
programs 
7.    Develop clearly established 
measures and accountability for program 
progress. 
Acquisition Strategy, Acquisition Program 
Baseline, Testing and Evaluation Master Plan 
8.    Ensure that the acquisition is consistent 
with the DoD Information Enterprise policies 
and architecture, to include relevant standards. 
Capability Development Document Net-
Ready–Key Performance Parameters, 
Capability Production Document Net-Ready–
Key Performance Parameters, Information 
Support Plan, Sec 9.4 Alternate Architecture 
Report (see Clinger-Cohen Act Implementation 
Guide) 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
11 
9.    Ensure that the program has a 
Cybersecurity Strategy that is consistent with 
DoD policies, standards and architectures, to 
include relevant standards. 
Cybersecurity Strategy, Program 
Protection Plan, Risk Management 
Framework Security Plan 
10.  Ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, 
(1) modular contracting has been used, and (2) 
the program is being implemented in phased, 
successive increments, each of which meets 
part of the mission need and delivers 
measurable benefit, independent of future 
increments. 
Acquisition Strategy 
11.  Register Mission-Critical and Mission-
Essential systems with the DoD CIO. 
Information Technology Investment Portfolio 
Suite Registration Number 
 
12 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
Attachment 3 
PROGRAM MANAGER CLINGER-COHEN ACT TRANSMITTAL MEMORANDUM 
TEMPLATE 
Figure A3.1.  Program Manager Clinger-Cohen Act Transmittal Memorandum Template. 
 
                                                                                                      __________________ 
                                                                                                                   (date) 
 
MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/CIO A6XA 
 
SUBJECT:  CCA Transmittal Memorandum for _______(Name of Program)______ 
 
 
Attached to this memorandum is the Air Force Clinger–Cohen Act Compliance Table and 
supporting documentation for the         (Name of Program)        Program.  I have 
reviewed the attached documentation and determined that it is ready for assessment and 
confirmation.   Additional information on our program is provided in the attached CCA 
Program Summary Sheet.  My Point of Contact for CCA compliance is (name, e-mail, 
phone number). 
 
 
___________________________________ 
(Signature of Program Manager) 
(add signature block) 
 
 
 
 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
13 
Attachment 4 
AIR FORCE CLINGER-COHEN ACT PROGRAM SUMMARY SHEET 
Table A4.1.  Air Force Clinger-Cohen Act Program Summary Sheet. 
(NAME OF PROGRAM) 
INFORMATION REQUEST 
RESPONSE 
Name of Program 
 
Acquisition Category or Business Acquisition 
Category Designation 
(see DoDI 5000.02, Table 1 or DoDI 5000.75) 
 
Mission Area 
(Warfighting, Defense Intelligence, Enterprise 
Information Environment, or Business) 
 
For National Security Systems, National Security 
Systems Checklist (date approved or not approved) 
 
Period of Performance  
(total lifecycle by FY) 
 
Lifecycle funding  
(in $, with breakout of Research, Development, 
Test, & Evaluation (RDT&E); 
Development/Modification (Dev/Mod); and 
Operation & Maintenance (O&M)) 
 
Milestone schedule 
(denoting each program milestone, the dates for 
milestones already attained, and the dates for future 
milestones) 
 
Upcoming Milestone or Contract Award and Date 
 
Name of Program Manager 
(org/office symbol/email/phone number) 
 
Name of Program Executive Officer 
(org/office symbol) 
 
Name of Milestone Decision Authority 
(org/office symbol) 
 
Command or Functional Office 
(org/office symbol) 
 
14 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
Program Description  
(one to two paragraphs) 
 
Description of IT Capability or Modernization 
Effort 
(one to two paragraphs)  
 
 
 
AFMAN17-1402  20 JUNE 2018 
15 
Attachment 5 
PROGRAM MANAGER CLINGER-COHEN ACT ASSERTION MEMORANDUM 
TEMPLATE 
Figure A5.1.  Program Manager Clinger-Cohen Act Assertion Memorandum Template. 
 
 
 
                                                                                                       __________________ 
                                                                                                                   (date) 
 
 
 
MEMORANDUM FOR SAF/CIO A6XA 
 
SUBJECT:  CCA Assertion Memorandum for _______(Name of Program)______ 
 
 
SUBJECT:  Clinger-Cohen Act Compliance Assertion for ___(Name of Program)___ 
 
I have reviewed the Clinger-Cohen Act compliance documentation for all 11 Clinger-
Cohen Act Elements for this Program and I assert that the documentation is compliant 
with AFMAN 17-1402 and DoDI (select 5000.02, 5000.74, or 5000.75).   
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                             _________________________ 
                                                                                             (Signature of Program Manager, 
                                                                                              Name of Program Office, 
                                                                                  Command, or Functional 
 
 
 
