BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE MANUAL 14-402 
27 JANUARY 2025 
Intelligence 
INTELLIGENCE MISSION ROLES, 
RESPONSIBILITIES, AND PROGRAM 
MANAGEMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: AF/A2/6F 
Certified by: AF/A2/6F 
Supersedes: 
AFI 14-1020, 08 November 2017 
Pages: 21 
 
 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 14-4, Management of the Air Force 
Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects Operations Enterprise, and 
Department of Defense Instruction 3305.02, DoD General Intelligence Training and Certification. 
This publication applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air 
Force, the Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. This publication does not apply to the 
United States Space Force. This Instruction requires the collection and or maintenance of 
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Department of Defense Directive 
(DoDD) 5400.11, DoD Privacy and Civil Liberties Programs. The applicable System of Record 
Notice (SORN) DOD-0020, Military Human Resource Records (MHRR) is available at: 
https://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs/. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer 
recommended changes to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. In 
accordance with DAF Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, the 
authorities to waive Field Operating Agency/Wing/Unit Level requirements are identified with a 
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. Submit requests for 
waivers through the Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to AF/A2/6F for non-tiered 
compliance items. 
2 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed. 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
3 
Chapter 1 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1.  Purpose.  This guidance contains 59 tiered compliance statements: 5 (T-1); 33 (T-2); 21 
(T-3). It provides the overarching framework for Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Direct 
Reporting Units (DRUs), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Service Component Commands 
(SCCs) to organize, train, and equip (OT&E) intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
activities across all Air Force missions.  It establishes guidelines for development of operational 
requirements and management of the intelligence qualification program. 
1.2.  Scope and Applicability.  This instruction addresses roles and responsibilities. It structures 
the intelligence mission qualification program for personnel that are performing intelligence 
activities and duties in support of Air Force missions. 
1.2.1.  Organizations assigned to Combatant Commands, National Intelligence Agencies, and 
U.S. Space Force missions follow applicable command, Department of Defense, and 
Intelligence Community guidance. 
1.2.2.  This publication is not intended to fully apply to individuals conducting functions at 
command staffs or technical training activities unless specifically directed by supplemental 
guidance. 
4 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITES 
2.1.  Deputy 
Chief 
of 
Staff, 
Intelligence, 
Surveillance 
and 
Reconnaissance 
(AF/A2/6).  Provides policy, oversight, and guidance to support MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, and SCC 
organizing, training, and equipping activities of Air Force intelligence, surveillance, and 
reconnaissance forces and capabilities 
2.2.  Director, Readiness and Talent Management (AF/A2/6F).  Provides guidance and 
oversight for MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, and SCC to develop and implement intelligence qualification 
programs and operational procedures in support of intelligence requirements across all mission 
sets and career field requirements. AF/A2/6F will coordinate T-1 compliance waivers with Lead 
Commands to ensure awareness of AF-wide issues to make informed programmatic decisions. 
2.3.  MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, and SCC Directorates of Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
Reconnaissance (A2)  (Includes National Guard Bureau A2/6 & Air Force Reserve Command 
A2) will: 
2.3.1.  Oversee subordinate organizations’ operational processes, training, qualification, and 
readiness activities to ensure programs meet intelligence mission and career field requirements 
and standards. 
2.3.2.  Ensure infrastructure and information technology systems support intelligence program 
requirements (e.g., training, contingency, wartime, connectivity, and maintenance) for 
assigned and Guard/Reserve-supported organizations. 
2.3.3.  Author, manage, and coordinate supplemental guidance with Lead Command, as 
required, to ensure consistency. 
2.3.4.  Track subordinate organizations’ waiver requests and training shortfalls. Send trends to 
AF/A2/6F and Lead Command when requested. 
2.3.5.  Develop and coordinate inclusion of intelligence desired learning objectives into 
certification events and exercises. 
2.4.  Lead Command/Lead Agent.  Leads establish the qualification and operational standards 
within their mission set and are responsible for compiling requirements and developing guidance 
in coordination with all affected MAJCOMs as depicted in DAFPD 10-9, Lead Command/Lead 
Agent Designation and Responsibilities for United States Air Force Weapon Systems, Non-
Weapon Systems, and Activities, and the Lead Command Agent Table. Leads will: 
2.4.1.  Author and manage guidance to baseline intelligence requirements across the mission 
set. Coordinate within each intelligence mission set community to ensure currency and 
applicability. 
2.4.2.  Ensure units have access to validated and benchmarked training materials. Sponsor 
“best practices” exchanges to promote high quality training. Ensure units with similar missions 
have equivalent baseline training standards and evaluation procedures to promote uniformity. 
2.4.3.  Conduct Intelligence Realistic Training Review Board(s) at least every other year to 
review training programs and tactics, techniques, and procedures for currency, applicability, 
compliance, and effectiveness in conjunction with applicable stakeholders. 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
5 
2.4.4.  Review MAJCOM waivers and training shortfalls, as reported, to identify trends and 
necessary programmatic adjustments. Notify AF/A2/6F of trends that indicate the need to 
readdress existing guidance or as requested. 
2.4.5.  Ensure training and instructional systems are developed as outlined in DAFH 36-2675, 
Designers of Instructional Systems. 
2.4.6.  Lead Command/Agent will define the method(s) by which Initial Qualification Training 
(IQT) is accomplished (T-1). 
2.5.  Lead Command/Lead Agent for Training.  The Lead for Training is only responsible for 
formal IQT and only when designated by the Lead Command/Agent; this is not necessarily the 
Lead for the intelligence mission set. The Lead for Training should execute the roles and 
responsibilities IAW with DAFMAN 36-2689, Training Program. The Lead for Training will: 
2.5.1.  Execute training and instructional systems development as outlined in DAFH 36-2675, 
Designers of Instructional Systems. 
2.5.2.  Accomplish formal course reviews at least every other year in conjunction with the Lead 
Command to ensure formal training sufficiently addresses requirements for qualification 
training. When possible, schedule course reviews in conjunction with an Intelligence Realistic 
Training Review Board to minimize travel cost and maximize participation. 
2.5.3.  Establish student progress review procedures and outline processes to address student 
elimination when students fail to progress. 
2.5.4.  Ensure adequate resourcing for sustainment of existing formal IQT programs 
(excluding temporary duty-to-school costs). Any MAJCOM increasing requirements in 
existing courses will provide funding to cover the additional costs as required. 
2.6.  Commanders.  Commanders at the Wing or equivalent level and above with personnel 
conducting intelligence activities will have an Intelligence Professional to ensure intelligence 
programs meet assigned mission sets and career field requirements and standards IAW this and 
other applicable publications (e.g., DAFMAN 14-401, Intelligence Analysis and Targeting 
Tradecraft/Data Standards and AFI 14-404, Intelligence Oversight) (T-1). 
2.7.  Intelligence Professional.  The Intelligence Professional should be the organization’s 
Director A2, the Senior Intelligence Officer, or the Director A2/Senior Intelligence Officer. In 
circumstances that result in the organization not having a Director A2 or Senior Intelligence 
Officer, the Commander will designate an Intelligence Professional from within the Intelligence 
Community to fulfill the roles and responsibilities of this position. The Intelligence Professional 
serves as the intelligence advisor to the Commander and is responsible for the execution of the 
intelligence activities within the Commander’s organization to include all subordinate/lateral units. 
The Intelligence Professional will, as applicable to the mission: 
2.7.1.  Develop, implement, and track intelligence mission qualification programs to include 
evaluation of currency elements (T-2). 
2.7.2.  Define and designate the mission readiness level and currency standards (Combat 
Mission Ready [CMR]/Basic Mission Capable [BMC]), to which each intelligence position 
will train, achieve, and maintain (T-2). 
6 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
2.7.3.  Ensure intelligence personnel are trained, equipped and mission ready to respond to 
wartime/contingency tasking and peacetime operational and training requirements (T- 2). 
2.7.4.  Identify intelligence training and qualification requirements to meet mission, readiness, 
and career field standards (T-2). Determine which intelligence personnel will carry specialized 
qualifications (T-2). 
2.7.5.  Develop, equip, and implement intelligence training programs to meet mission, 
readiness, and career field requirements (T-2). 
2.7.6.  Ensure intelligence personnel can gather/access critical data (T-2). 
2.7.7.  Provide intelligence support during all phases of conflict and decision making (T-2). 
2.7.8.  Manage and coordinate on utilization of all intelligence personnel within the 
organization (T-2). 
2.7.9.  Act as the focal point for all intelligence requirements in tasked Unit Type Codes, 
exercises, and deployment orders (T-2). 
2.7.10.  Ensure personnel are familiar with organizational obligations in relation to Designed 
Operational Capability statement, Operation Plans/Concept Plans, Base Support Plans, force 
presentation model, contingency, emergency war order and ad hoc tasking (T-2). 
2.7.11.  Develop and execute an External Intelligence Training (EIT) program for any 
personnel outside the intelligence organization requiring and/or requesting intelligence 
training in order to prepare the wing or equivalent for contingency and wartime missions (T-2). 
2.7.12.  Provide intelligence support tailored to the organization's operational mission and 
command support activities (T-2). 
2.7.13.  Provide full-spectrum threat assessments and mission planning in support of 
deployments, contingencies, and combat operations (T-2). 
2.7.14.  Debrief aircrew/operators and write/transmit mission reports/analysis IAW 
MAJCOM/theater intelligence reporting directive(s) (T-2). 
2.7.15.  Standardize intelligence procedures and processes (briefings, situation displays, 
products, etc.) throughout the organization to the fullest extent possible (T-2). 
2.7.16.  Provide intelligence support to base agencies and organizations, to include tenant 
organizations, as requested (T-3). 
2.7.17.  Provide intelligence support to transient organizations and aircrew (T-2). 
2.7.18.  Ensure intelligence personnel are trained, equipped, and fully prepared in the 
Contingency Intelligence Network (CIN), to include standing up and operating a Combat 
Intelligence Cell (CIC) and supporting a Mission Planning Cell (MPC), in response to 
wartime/contingency taskings and peacetime operational and training requirements (T-2). If 
the organization does not structure and execute its mission via the CIN, be familiar with how 
the organization feeds into CIN processes and procedures as appropriate. 
2.7.19.  Develop and document local processes and programs using vetted and validated 
sources (e.g., AF Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures [AFTTP] 3-1. [Mission Design Series] 
attachment 2, AFTTP 3-3 Integrated Planning & Employment [IPE] attachment 2, AFTTP 3-
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
7 
4.14 Contingency Intelligence Network [CIN], AFTTP 3-1. Threat Guide, and MAJCOM-
developed guidance and aids) (T-2). 
2.7.20.  Identify financial shortfalls and develop a budget for inclusion into the organization’s 
yearly financial plan (T-2). 
2.7.21.  Ensure intelligence input to unit Personnel Recovery (PR) operational support 
program IAW AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program. 
Coordinate intelligence support to PR responsibilities and document delineation of duties in a 
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) (T-2). 
2.7.22.  Ensure intelligence readiness is reported accurately within the Defense Readiness 
Reporting System, in coordination with organization Commander (T-3). 
8 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
Chapter 3 
MISSION QUALIFICATION 
3.1.  Mission Qualification consists of Training, Evaluation, and Currency.  Qualification is 
an ongoing process to attain and maintain mission ready status rather than a static achievement. 
3.2.  Qualification Training Structure.  Intelligence qualification training, consisting of IQT and 
Mission Qualification Training (MQT), follows a building block approach. After completion of 
MQT, Continuation Training (CT) ensures maintenance and progression of knowledge, skills, and 
abilities of intelligence personnel. Specialized Training (ST) addresses additional intelligence 
tasks required by some positions above and beyond the baseline MQT requirements. 
3.2.1.  IQT begins upon entry into a mission set and establishes a foundational set of skills 
developed to a level of detail common across a mission set, without focusing on any 
organization's specific mission execution. Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU) course 
attendance is the preferred method of completing IQT when it meets mission set training 
requirements. Lead Command/Agent may develop other IQT courses or criteria to meet 
mission set-specific requirements or may leverage other course materials to best meet 
requirements. Lead Command/Agent may authorize in-house IQT. 
3.2.2.  MQT applies specific organization and mission context to skills gained in IQT and 
provides additional training to achieve mission ready qualification. MQT is an organization’s 
program which includes unique local area procedures and ensures trainees can demonstrate 
knowledge and task proficiency. Lead Command/Agent prescribes minimum MQT 
requirements to qualify personnel in the mission set. 
3.2.3.  CT promotes a continuous learning environment, ensuring that intelligence personnel 
are always qualified and current to perform their assigned duties by maintaining proficiency in 
the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities. 
3.2.3.1.  CT focuses on maintaining perishable skills and consists of specific 
wartime/contingency mission-related tasks. In some cases, this may involve simply 
documenting activities individuals conduct on a regular basis as part of their duty. CT task 
performance by qualified and current individuals does not require supervision by a trainer 
or evaluator. 
3.2.3.2.  In addition to performance tasks, CT includes knowledge requirements to be met 
on a recurring basis. Training, for the most part, consists of locally-developed academics 
and scenarios. 
3.2.4.  ST addresses additional skills necessary to carry out the organization’s uniquely 
assigned mission(s). ST requirements are in addition to baseline mission qualification. 
3.2.5.  Difference Training (DT). Individuals moving to a similar mission set as determined by 
the Lead Command are assessed by the gaining organization to determine their previous 
training and experience level. If their previous IQT meets current requirements, the individual 
may be allowed to “proficiency advance” via an abbreviated in-house IQT or proceed directly 
to MQT. 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
9 
3.3.  Intelligence Mission Readiness Levels.  These levels reflect the individual’s readiness in 
terms of mission qualification and currency. Personnel must maintain the mission readiness level 
of their assigned position (T-1). 
3.3.1.  Basic Qualification (BQ) is a temporary status held by personnel after completion of 
IQT until completion of MQT. Positions will not be designated as BQ status. 
3.3.2.  Combat Mission Ready (CMR) refers to personnel who have completed IQT and MQT, 
have passed an evaluation to reach CMR status, and then maintains current qualifications in 
the required skills, knowledge, and tasks.  Personnel in CMR status must be ready to perform 
operational duties without assistance (T-2). CMR personnel are intended to support the 
organization’s mission(s) at home and while deployed. Deployment in support of Joint 
Individual Augmentation Taskings do not rely on personnel qualification in assigned mission 
sets; therefore, mission readiness level does not restrict deployment. 
3.3.3.  Basic Mission Capable (BMC) refers to personnel who are qualified to perform all 
mission tasks but do not perform them often enough to remain proficient. BMC status may be 
used for replacement or surge personnel who are not required to be immediately ready to 
perform wartime duties.  Personnel in BMC status must be able to meet CMR currency 
requirements within 30 days in order to deploy in support of organizational missions (T-3). If 
this is not possible, the gaining/deployed commander must be informed and assume the risk of 
deploying BMC personnel (T-2). 
10 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
Chapter 4 
QUALIFICATION TRAINING PROGRAM EXECUTION 
4.1.  Training Timelines.  Intelligence personnel must complete IQT before concluding MQT 
(T-2). The timeline for completing IQT is dictated by the formal course syllabus or as determined 
by the organization, in lieu of specific guidance 
4.1.1.  IQT and MQT may be conducted concurrently in situations where allocation/seats are 
not available for formal training courses, where the mission set is limited to one location and 
thus no formal differentiation of training stages is necessary, or where it is logical to take 
advantage of training events and timing. Lead Command/Agents determine timelines based on 
mission, personnel status, and requirements. 
4.1.2.  Intra-organization training (whether IQT or MQT) begins no later than 90 days after in-
processing actions are complete and security clearance is granted for Active Component 
members and no later than 180 days after return to unit from Initial Skills Training/formal IQT 
for Reserve Component members (T-2). For first term Airmen, intra-organization training 
timeline may begin after completion of the First Term Airman Course or equivalent. 
Intelligence personnel in training should be dedicated to that training (i.e., training 
requirements should have priority over non-training related duties). 
4.2.  Currency.  Personnel are required to maintain the currency associated with their assigned 
position (CMR or BMC) by performing CT tasks. Personnel may only perform tasks for which 
they are qualified and current. Failure to maintain required currency will result in loss of 
qualification and regression to non-CMR or non-BMC (T-2). If personnel lose currency in a 
particular task, they may not perform that task except for the purpose of regaining currency under 
supervision (T-3). 
4.3.  Regression.  A regression may occur for any member who fails to demonstrate proficiency 
in a given task or fails to complete CT tasks. Intelligence personnel regressed to non-CMR/non-
BMC must complete requalification actions to return them to CMR or BMC status (T-2). 
4.4.  Loss of Qualification.  Intelligence personnel will revert to unqualified status upon loss of 
currency for an extended timeframe to include individuals returning to a mission set after being 
unable to meet the currency requirement; this includes specialized qualifications (T-2). 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
11 
Chapter 5 
EVALUATIONS 
5.1.  Evaluation.  Evaluations ensure the organization’s training program adequately prepares 
their personnel to support their assigned mission(s) by observing personnel perform intelligence 
functions to ensure they can successfully meet the minimum standard. 
5.2.  Evaluation Conduct.  Organizations will periodically conduct evaluations to include all 
requisite events, applying the criteria as prescribed by Lead Command, MAJCOM, and/or local 
guidance (T-1). Prior to any evaluation, personnel being evaluated must have completed all MQT 
and/or ST requirements (T-1). Conduct evaluations in a realistic training environment in 
conjunction with in-garrison events to the maximum extent possible. Evaluations during exercises 
are encouraged due to the robust environment. Apply operational risk management principles to 
determine whether it is appropriate to conduct an evaluation during real-world operations. 
5.3.  Evaluation Trend Analysis.  Evaluation trends will be captured and analyzed to identify 
shortfalls in training and readiness (T-2). Identified shortfalls should be addressed through updates 
to training. Data reporting requirements are determined by the MAJCOM in coordination with the 
Lead Command/Agent. 
12 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
Chapter 6 
DOCUMENTATION AND RECORDS 
6.1.  Documentation and Records.  Career Field Training Documentation and Records are 
accomplished IAW DAFMAN 36-2689, Training Program. 
6.2.  Prescribed Forms.  MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, and SCCs will provide guidance to ensure 
complete documentation of intelligence training activities and qualification results for all assigned 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance Airmen (T-2). The following forms are designed for 
use with mission qualification: 
6.2.1.  AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet. The AF Form 4381 contains mission set-
specific task elements.  It is used by trainers to record the trainee’s progress through MQT and 
ST, as well as by evaluators to ensure all required areas are addressed. AF Form 4381 used by 
trainers will to be retained in the individual’s record; AF Form 4381 used by evaluators may 
be destroyed once qualification is otherwise documented. 
6.2.2.  AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. The overall evaluation result 
may be recorded on the AF Form 4350 which becomes the source document to verify that a 
member is qualified for their duty position. A complete history of each AF Form 4350 in a 
member’s record is maintained on their AF Form 4349. 
6.2.3.  AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation. A member’s chronological history 
of evaluations may be recorded on the AF Form 4349. 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
13 
Chapter 7 
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO BASE DEFENSE 
7.1.  Intelligence Support to Base Defense (ISBD).  Intelligence supports Base Defense (BD) 
directly through training, mission planning support, and threat analysis IAW DAFI 31-101, Base 
Defense Operations. 
7.1.1.  DAFMAN 31-102, Counter Small-Unmanned Aircraft Systems, places new emphasis 
on the challenges and importance of the counter small-Unmanned Aircraft System (sUAS) 
problem set. Accordingly, intelligence personnel will ensure threat assessments for sUAS and 
emerging threat data are delivered to the operational community at the lowest feasible 
classification level, assessed for impact to operations, and studied for non-material mitigation 
development, if required. Threat assessments should be conducted annually. 
7.1.2.  Adhere to requirements and policies contained in DAFMAN 16-201, Department of the 
Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, for disclosing classified and 
controlled unclassified (i.e., Controlled Unclassified Information [CUI], technical orders, 
schematics, etc.) BD military information to foreign nationals.  All classified and controlled 
unclassified BD military information must be reviewed and approved by a properly designated 
disclosure authority before release.  Contact the MAJCOM Foreign Disclosure Office for 
guidance. 
7.2.  Host Organization BD Responsibilities.  The host organization, the organization with base 
operating support responsibilities for the in-garrison location, is responsible for ISBD to the 
installation and assigned personnel.  In the event the host unit does not have an organic intelligence 
capability, its higher headquarters or a tenant unit with an organic intelligence capability, as 
appropriate, will provide ISBD.  The relationship and requirements related to ISBD will be defined 
through a Unit Support Plan, Base Support Plan, or MOA as appropriate.  Organizations with BD 
responsibility will: 
7.2.1.  Develop, implement, and execute an ISBD program as an integral part of the installation 
commander’s BD program (T-2). 
7.2.2.  Participate in unit/base working groups (e.g., Threat, Anti-Terrorism [AT], BD), and 
other functions as appropriate (T-3). 
7.2.3.  Review intelligence portions of the installation Integrated Defense (ID)/AT plan or 
applicable document at least annually (T-3). 
7.2.4.  Support the development of annual Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) 
Local Threat Assessments (LTA) by providing pertinent analysis of transnational/foreign 
terrorist capabilities, activities, history, intent, and probable courses of actions (T-3). 
7.2.5.  In coordination with AFOSI and the Security Forces Squadron, the organization 
responsible for ISBD will: 
7.2.5.1.  Analyze intelligence information for impact on unit mission and Base Security 
Zone and rapidly disseminate threat information to subordinate and lateral units, HHQs, 
and other appropriate agencies (T-3). 
14 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
7.2.5.2.  Establish procedures to track Intelligence Community threat levels, threat 
warnings, alerts, and advisories for threats to home station and/or deployed locations (T-3). 
7.2.5.3.  Provide staff, aircrews, and other BD customers pre-deployment full-spectrum 
threat information (T-3). 
7.3.  Tenant Unit BD Responsibilities.  Tenant organizations rely on the host organization as 
primary for ensuring BD support to the in-garrison location, but they retain full responsibility for 
providing ISBD to their own organization leadership and personnel.  In the event the tenant unit 
does not have an organic intelligence capability, its higher headquarters, another tenant unit, or the 
host organization with an organic intelligence capability, as appropriate, will provide ISBD.  The 
relationship and requirements related to ISBD will be defined through a Unit Support Plan, Base 
Support Plan, or MOA as appropriate. Tenant organizations will: 
7.3.1.  Develop, implement, and execute an ISBD program within the organization as required 
(T-2). 
7.3.2.  Ensure the organization is included on their host installation’s BD plan. This 
organizational relationship will be codified through a MOA (T-3). 
7.3.3.  Coordinate with the installation AT officer to ensure procedures are in place and 
documented in the installation ID/AT plan to receive, process, or correlate threat 
warnings/information to include collaboration with host unit's Security Forces Squadron (T-3). 
7.3.4.  Brief tenant staff, aircrews, and other appropriate parties on the installation LTA (T-3). 
7.3.5.  In coordination with local AFOSI regional offices, provide staff, aircrews, and other 
BD customers pre-deployment full-spectrum threat information. (T-3). 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
15 
Chapter 8 
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION DEFENSE TEAMS (MDT) 
8.1.  Intelligence Support to Mission Defense Teams (ISMDT).  The host organization will be 
responsible for ISMDT to the installation and assigned personnel (T-2).  In the event the host unit 
does not have an organic intelligence capability, its higher headquarters or a tenant unit with an 
organic intelligence capability will provide ISMDT as appropriate. The relationship and 
requirements related to ISMDT will be defined through a Unit Support Plan, Base Support Plan, 
or MOA as appropriate. 
16 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
Chapter 9 
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO INFORMATION WAREFARE WORKING GROUP 
9.1.  Intelligence Support to Information Warfare Working Group (ISIWWG).  The host 
organization will be responsible for ISIWWG to the installation and assigned personnel (T-2).  In 
the event the host unit does not have an organic intelligence capability, its higher headquarters or 
a tenant unit with an organic intelligence capability will provide ISIWWG as appropriate.  The 
relationship and requirements related to ISIWWG will be defined through a Unit Support Plan, 
Base Support Plan, or MOA as appropriate. 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
17 
Chapter 10 
EXTERNAL INTELLIGENCE TRAINING 
10.1.  External Intelligence Training (EIT).  EIT is tailored to the organization’s mission, 
weapon systems, projected wartime/force presentation model tasking, and base/deployment 
location(s). Most organizations conduct two types of EIT: Aircrew/Operators Intelligence Training 
(A/OIT) and BD Intelligence Training (BDIT). Other types of EIT may be required and training 
should be modified accordingly. 
10.2.  EIT Program Management. 
10.2.1.  IAW AFI 38-101, Manpower and Organization, one of the primary duties of 
intelligence is to train Aircrew/Operators. A/OIT categories typically include, but are not 
limited to, threat knowledge, visual recognition/detectable signatures, collection and reporting, 
and PR.  Include other categories as required based on the organization’s unit’s mission(s). 
10.2.2.  BDIT should be coordinated with AFOSI and BD customers to identify training 
requirements and develop an appropriate program tailored to the organization’s mission.  
Topics that should be considered include the following: the role of intelligence in BD (Threat 
Working Group, Base-level AT and ID), Intelligence resources, Defense Threat Assessment; 
briefings, Essential Elements of Information; Intelligence Oversight, terrorist threat levels, hot 
spots, hostile forces (typically those located in or adjacent to deployment areas), and Threats 
(e.g., weapons, jammers, etc.). 
10.2.3.  Program guidance should be coordinated with commanders of each organization for 
which intelligence training is provided on a regularly scheduled basis. 
10.2.4.  EIT Program Manager will: 
10.2.4.1.  Outline procedures for execution of the EIT program to include conducting, 
documenting, testing, evaluating, monitoring, and reporting (T-3). 
10.2.4.2.  Develop a training plan for each type of EIT (T-3). 
10.2.4.3.  Ensure documentation of all EIT events (T-3). Documentation should include 
attendance rosters, feedback, and syllabus. 
10.2.4.4.  Ensure EIT tests are administered IAW locally developed requirements (T-3). 
10.2.4.5.  Actively solicit feedback to ensure training requirements are met, and review 
feedback prior to the beginning of the training cycle (T-3). 
10.2.4.6.  Review training objectives for currency and applicability prior to the beginning 
of the training cycle (T-3).  Provide written assessments of EIT programs at the end of each 
training cycle to the supported commander(s) (T-3).  Include the status of training 
completion, trend analysis, and any corrective actions. 
18 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
Chapter 11 
CROSS SERVICING OF TRANSIENT ORGANIZATIONS AND AIRCREW 
11.1.  Some aircraft, military and civilian, and ground teams recover from missions at 
locations other than home station.  Upon request, organizations with airfield authority are 
responsible for ensuring that all aircrew/ground teams recovering at their base receive intelligence 
and BD support, to include mission planning support, briefing, debriefing, and submitting the 
appropriate intelligence reports 
 
LEAH G. LAUDERBACK, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects Operations 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
19 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDI 3305.02, DoD General Intelligence Training and Certification, 12 August, 2015 
DAFH 36-2675, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems, 15 April 2022 
DAFI 31-101, Base Defense Operations, 10 September 2024 
DAFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 16 April 2021 
DAFMAN 14-401, Intelligence Analysis and Targeting Tradecraft/Data Standards, 26 May 
2021 
DAFMAN 16-201, Department of the Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer 
Program, 19 January 2021 
DAFMAN 31-102, Counter Small-Unmanned Aircraft Systems, 10 September 2024 
DAFMAN 36-2689, Training Program, 31 March 2023 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 18 October 2023 
DAFPD 10-9, Lead Command/Lead Agent Designation and Responsibilities for United States 
Air Force Weapon Systems, and Activities, 25 May 2021 
AFI 14-404, Intelligence Oversight, 3 September 2019 
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 3 August 2017 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFI 38-101, Manpower and Organization, 29 August 2019 
AFPD 14-4, Management of the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations Enterprise, 11 July 2019 
Prescribed Forms 
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation 
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification 
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation 
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
20 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
AIT—Aircrew/crew Intelligence Training 
A/OIT—Aircrew/Operator Intelligence Training 
AT—Anti-Terrorism 
BD—Base Defense 
BDIT—Base Defense Intelligence Training 
BMC—Basic Mission Capable 
BQ—Basic Qualification 
CIC—Combat Intelligence Cell 
CIN—Contingency Intelligence Network 
CMR—Combat Mission Ready 
CT—Continuation Training 
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information 
DAFH—Department of the Air Force Handbook 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force Instruction  
DAFMAN—Department of the Air Force Manual  
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit 
EIT—External Intelligence Training 
FOA—Field Operating Agency 
FTAC—First Term Airmen Course 
HHQ—Higher Headquarters 
IAW—In Accordance With 
ID—Integrated Defense 
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit 
IPE—Integrated Planning and Employment  
IQT—Initial Qualification Training 
IRTRB—Intelligence Realistic Training Review Board 
ISBD—Intelligence Support to Base Defense 
ISIWWG—Intelligence Support to Information Warfare Working Group 
ISMDT—Intelligence Support to Mission Defense Team 
LTA—Local Threat Assessment 
AFMAN14-402  27 JANUARY 2025 
21 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
MDS—Mission Design Series 
MDT—Mission Defense Team 
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement 
MPC—Mission Planning Cell 
MQT—Mission Qualification Training 
OT&E—Organize, Train, and Equip 
POC—Point of Contact 
PR—Personnel Recovery 
SCC—Service Component Command 
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape 
ST—Specialized Training 
sUAS—small Unmanned Aircraft System 
T-1—Tier 1 Waiver Authority 
T-2—Tier 2 Waiver Authority 
T-3—Tier 3 Waiver Authority 
 
