BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY 
OF THE AIR FORCE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
DIRECTIVE 3000.07_ 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-42 
18 OCTOBER 2018 
Operations 
IRREGULAR WARFARE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at: 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
OPR: AF/A5S 
Supersedes: DoDD 3000.07_AFPD 10-42, 
 28 January 2011 
Certified by: AF/A5/8 
Pages: 19
This Supplement implements DoD Directive 3000.07, Irregular Warfare, 28 August 2014 
Incorporating Change 1, May 12, 2017 and DoD Instruction 3000.11, Management of DoD 
Irregular Warfare (IW) and Security Force Assistance (SFA) Capabilities, 3 May 2016. Original 
DoD Directive 3000.07 text appears in regular text and added Air Force text appears in bold. 
Added AF text identifies Air Force Offices of Primary Responsibility responsible for 
implementing each Service responsibility identified in DoD Directive 3000.07 and DoD 
Instruction 3000.11 and provides clarifying or additional AF policy to assist in this 
implementation when necessary. This Supplement applies to all Air Force active duty, Air Force 
Civilian, and Air Reserve Component units and personnel.   
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in 
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in 
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition 
Schedule.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of 
Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; 
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  This 
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all Supplements must be routed to the office 
of primary responsibility of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. 
2 
DODD3000.07_AFPD10-42  18 OCTOBER 2018 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major 
changes include the deletion of previous additional AF policy language as unnecessary to 
implement this DoD Directive and the addition of implementation guidance for DoD Instruction 
3000.11. 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
 
         Department of Defense 
DIRECTIVE 
NUMBER 3000.07 
August 28, 2014 
Incorporating Change 1, May 12, 2017 
 
USD(P) 
SUBJECT: Irregular Warfare (IW) 
References: See Enclosure 1 
 
1. PURPOSE. This directive: 
a. Reissues DoD Directive (DoDD) 3000.07 (Reference (a)) to establish policy and 
assign responsibilities for DoD conduct of IW and development of capabilities to address 
irregular challenges or threats to national security in accordance with DoDD 5100.01 
(Reference (b)). 
 
b. Requires that any conflicting issuances be identified to the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Policy (USD(P)) and the Director of Administration. 
 
2. APPLICABILITY. This directive applies to OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and the Joint Staff, the Combatant 
Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense 
Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD 
(referred to collectively in this directive as the “DoD Components”). 
 
3. POLICY. It is DoD policy that: 
 
a. IW is as strategically important as traditional warfare and DoD must be equally capable 
in both. Many of the capabilities and skills required for IW are applicable to traditional 
warfare, but their role in IW can be proportionally greater. 
 
b. DoD will be proficient in IW. 
 
c. IW is conducted independently of, or in combination with, traditional warfare. 
 
(1) IW can include any relevant DoD activity and operation such as 
counterterrorism; unconventional warfare; foreign internal defense; counterinsurgency; 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
and stability operations that, in the context of IW, involve establishing or re-establishing 
order in a fragile state or territory. 
 
(2) While these activities, whether undertaken in sequence, in parallel, or in 
blended form, may occur across the full range of military operations, the balance or 
primary focus of operations gives a campaign its predominant character. 
 
(3) Before, during, and after IW and traditional warfare, various programs, missions, 
and activities can occur that shape the environment and serve to deter or prevent war. These 
may include military engagement, security cooperation, deterrence activities, cyberspace 
operations, military information support operations (MISO), strategic communication, and 
civil military operations. 
 
d. Concepts and capabilities relevant to IW will be incorporated across all DoD 
activities, including: 
 
(1) Doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, 
and facilities, policy (DOTMLPF-P). 
 
(2) Assessments. 
 
(3) Analysis. 
 
(4) Exercises. 
 
(5) Experiments. 
 
(6) Applicable strategies and plans. 
 
e. When directed, DoD is able to: 
 
(1) Identify and prevent, contain, or defeat irregular challenges or threats from state 
and non-state actors across operational areas and environments. 
 
(2) Extend U.S. reach into denied areas and uncertain environments by operating 
with and through foreign forces or entities. 
 
(3) Train, advise, and assist foreign security forces and partners at the ministerial, 
service, and tactical levels to ensure security in their sovereign territory or to contribute forces 
to operations elsewhere, in accordance with DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.68 (Reference (c)). 
 
a. (Added) (AF) The USAF conducts Security Force Assistance primarily 
working with and through partner nation personnel via air advising to enable 
them to apply air power in support of their own security and governance 
needs as well as Combatant Command requirements.  Air Advisor operations 
are task-organized to provide enduring capabilities deliberately planned, 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
synchronized, and integrated with other security cooperation activities to 
achieve U.S. campaign objections. Air Advisors assess, train, advise, assist, 
and equip partner air forces in the employment, sustainment, and integration 
of their aviation forces with surface forces and coalition partners. Air 
Advising operations and activities align with Security Force Assistance to 
organize, train, equip, rebuild/build, and advise/assist framework, doctrine, 
and guidance. 
 
(4) Support a foreign government or population threatened by irregular adversaries. 
 
(5) Create a secure environment in fragile states. 
 
(6) Meet Combatant Commander (CCDR) objectives by conducting other related 
activities abroad, which can include: civil-military, intelligence, counterintelligence, space, 
cyber-space, counter threat finance, MISO, strategic communication, and providing support 
to foreign governance and law enforcement entities. 
 
f. DoD policy and programs will increase DoD effectiveness in operating with and 
through foreign security partners. 
 
g. Manpower authorizations, personnel policies, foreign language and cultural 
capabilities, and organizational structures will provide sufficient capacity and expertise in 
both the DoD civilian workforce and Military Services to conduct activities in support of 
IW. 
 
h. Appropriate DoD IW-related activities will be integrated with the efforts of other U.S. 
Government (USG) agencies, foreign security partners, and selected international 
organizations by supporting: 
 
(1) Combined policies, plans, and procedures, including collaborative 
training, education, and exercises that promote interoperability. 
 
(2) Integrated civilian-military teams. 
 
(3) Information strategies and operations to neutralize adversary propaganda 
and promote U.S. strategic interests. 
 
(4) Efforts to enhance information sharing, as appropriate, to synchronize 
planning, execution, and transition of IW activities and maintain the shared 
understanding of the operational environment required to counter irregular challenges or 
threats. 
 
(5) Integration of collective requirements and capabilities into unified planning efforts 
to optimize development and employment of capabilities. 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
(6) Provision of essential governmental services, emergency infrastructure 
restoration, and humanitarian relief, if directed. 
 
i. Investment strategy guidance addresses capability and capacity for IW-related 
activities and operations. 
 
4. RESPONSIBILITIES. See Enclosure 2. 
 
5. RELEASABILITY. Cleared for public release. This directive is available on the DoD 
Issuances Website at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives. 
 
6. EFFECTIVE DATE. This directive: is effective August 28, 2014. 
 
  
 
 
 
Heather Wilson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secretary of the Air Force 
 
 
Enclosures 
1. References 
2. Responsibiliti
es 
3. Glossary 
 
Change 1, 05/12/2017  
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
ENCLOSURE 1 
REFERENCES 
 
a. 
DoD Directive 3000.07, “Irregular Warfare (IW),” December 1, 2008 
(hereby cancelled) 
b. 
DoD Directive 5100.01, “Functions of the Department of Defense and Its 
Major Components,” December 21, 2010 
c. 
DoD Instruction 5000.68, “Security Force Assistance (SFA),” October 27, 
2010  
d. 
DoD Directive 1322.18, “Military Training,” January 13, 2009 
e. 
DoD Directive 5160.41E, “Defense Language, Regional Expertise, and 
Culture  (LREC) Program,” August 21, 2015, as amended 
f. 
DoD Instruction 5160.70, “Management of the Defense Language, Regional 
Expertise, and Culture (LREC) Program,” December 30, 2016 
g. 
(Added) (AF) Air Force Policy Document 10-43, Stability Operations, 16 
May 2011, Incorporating Change 1, 25 October 2013 
h. 
(Added) (AF) Air Force Policy Document 16-1, Security Cooperation, 12 
November 2015 
i. 
(Added) (AF) DoD Instruction 3000.11, “Management of DoD Irregular 
Warfare (IW) and Security Force Assistance (SFA) Capabilities,” May 
3, 2016 
j. 
(Added) (AF) DoD Instruction 3300.07, “Defense Intelligence Foreign 
Language and Regional and Cultural Capabilities,” February 14, 2017, 
Implementing Change 1, Effective March 7, 2018 
k. 
(Added) (AF) Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-54, Deputy 
Chief of Staff Operations, 8 September 2015 
l. 
(Added) (AF) Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-56, Deputy 
Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Requirements, 28 January 2016 
 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
DoDD 3000.07, August 28, 
2014 
 
ENCLOSURE 2 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
1. USD(P). The USD(P): 
 
a. In conjunction with the CJCS, incorporates IW-relevant concepts into strategic 
planning documents. Recommends to the Secretary of Defense priorities for policy, 
concepts, analysis, capabilities, and investment strategies relevant to IW. 
 
b. In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)), the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)), and 
the CJCS, incorporates knowledge from social and behavioral science disciplines into the 
development of DoD strategies, plans, and capabilities. 
 
c. Ensures that broader DoD efforts are synchronized with other USG agencies by 
advancing the development and implementation of IW strategies across the elements of 
national power, and oversees DoD contributions to those efforts. In coordination with the 
CJCS, CCDRs, and interagency partners, develops: 
 
(1) Organizational concepts to employ civilian-military teams, including their 
command and control relationships, composition, resourcing, and interoperability. 
 
(2) Policies and plans to promote a secure environment overseas, improve 
interoperability, and build the capability and capacity of partners to address 
irregular challenges or threats. 
 
(3) Policies, procedures, and capabilities to ensure transition with civilian agencies 
are addressed during planning and execution. 
 
d. In coordination with the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, 
the CJCS, CCDRs, and interagency partners, advances the development and 
implementation of information strategies to counter adversary propaganda and advance 
U.S. strategic interests. 
 
e. In coordination with the CJCS and CCDRs, develops policy guidance and priorities 
for DoD capabilities and programs tailored to train, advise, and assist foreign security 
forces and partners at the ministerial, service, and tactical levels to ensure security in their 
sovereign territory or to contribute forces to operations elsewhere. 
 
2. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS AND 
LOW- INTENSITY CONFLICT (ASD(SO/LIC)). Under the authority, direction, and 
control of the USD(P), the ASD(SO/LIC): 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
 
a. Serves as the principal civilian advisor to the Secretary of Defense for IW. In 
conjunction with the CJCS, provides overall policy oversight to ensure that DoD maintains 
capabilities and capacity to be as effective in IW as in traditional warfare. 
 
b. In coordination with the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
(DCAPE) and the CJCS, assesses the Military Department IW capability and capacity across 
the range of IW requirements to identify gaps, risks, and alternatives. 
 
c. In coordination with the CJCS, establishes and chairs an executive steering committee 
to oversee DoD implementation of this directive. 
 
3. USD(I). The USD(I): 
 
a. Maintains standards and guides the development of capabilities and capacity for 
persistent intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) and assessment of operational 
areas and environments that may serve as safe havens for irregular adversaries. 
 
b. Advances intelligence and information partnerships with interagency and 
international partners, as appropriate, to identify and prevent or defeat irregular challenges 
or threats across operational areas and environments. 
 
c. In accordance with strategic guidance documents, improves all-source collection 
and analysis to identify irregular challenges or threats from state and non-state actors. 
Ensures timely information dissemination from the strategic to the tactical level, 
recognizing that IW places particular reliance on releasable products to facilitate working 
with foreign security partners. 
 
d. Manages the development and integration of appropriate analytical intelligence 
training, models, tools, and data to provide intelligence support to the Military Services for 
IW. 
 
e. Incorporates into intelligence products information derived from social and 
behavioral science sources in the public and private sectors. 
 
f. Projects activity patterns on a regional and global scale for analyzing both friendly 
and adversary human networks through modeling and simulation capabilities. 
 
g. In conjunction with the CCDRs, prioritizes capabilities to identify, locate, track, 
and target adversary networks, cells, and individuals in order to neutralize their 
influence and operational capacity. 
 
h. In coordination with the Secretaries of the Military Departments and the Under 
Secretary for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)), promotes intelligence and 
counterintelligence career paths that attract and retain the quantity and quality of personnel 
with IW-relevant skills. 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services 
(AF/A1) is the Air Force office of primary responsibility, in coordination with the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower & Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR); 
the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
(AF/A2); and the Secretary of the Air Force Office of the Inspector General 
(SAF/IG). 
 
i. In coordination with the CJCS, the CCDRs, the USD(P), the Secretaries of the Military 
Departments, and the DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO), develops policy and 
capabilities to support information and intelligence sharing with diverse mission partners, to 
include irregular forces, emerging governments, and non-governmental and international 
organizations. Develops capabilities to help irregular and traditional warfare mission 
partners develop appropriate and interoperable traditional ISR capabilities. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A2 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility.   
 
4. USD(P&R). The USD(P&R): 
 
a. Establishes policies and provides oversight to enable DoD-wide training, education, 
and tracking of military and civilian personnel with skills and experience relevant to IW. 
Those include foreign language, regional expertise, cultural knowledge and understanding, 
and experience or expertise in training, advising, and assisting foreign security forces and 
institutions. 
 
b. Establishes policies for joint and combined training and exercises that meet CCDR 
IW- related requirements and promotes interoperability with relevant U.S. departments and 
agencies and multinational civilian and military organizations in accordance with DoDD 
1322.18 (Reference (d)). 
 
c. In coordination with the Secretaries of the Military Departments, recommends 
incentive programs such as focused recruitment, bonuses, specialty pays, promotion 
incentives, and quality of life programs to attract and retain personnel with IW-related skills 
and experience. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A1 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility, in 
coordination with SAF/MR. 
 
d. In coordination with the USD(P), the CJCS, and the Secretaries of the Military 
Departments, coordinates opportunities for DoD military and civilian personnel to contribute 
or develop knowledge, skills, and experience relevant to IW by: 
 
(1) Undertaking rotational assignments or exchange tours of duty with USG 
agencies, foreign security partners, and selected international organizations. 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
(2) Participating in non-DoD education and training programs. 
 
(3) (Added) (AF) AF/A1 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility, in 
coordination with SAF/MR. 
 
e. In coordination with the USD(I), the Secretaries of the Military Departments, and the 
Commander, United States Special Operations Command (CDRUSSOCOM), creates 
opportunities for DoD personnel to develop foreign language proficiency and cultural 
knowledge commensurate with the Intelligence Community’s assessment of current and 
emerging threats to national security in accordance with DoDD 5160.41E (Reference (e)). 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A1 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility, in 
coordination with SAF/MR and AF/A2.   
 
5. USD(AT&L). In coordination with the Secretaries of the Military Departments, CCDRs, 
CJCS, USD(I), and USD(P), the USD(AT&L) includes validated IW-related requirements in 
the acquisition programs of record and rapid acquisition efforts, to include procurement, 
transition, and sustainment of non-standard materiel capabilities. 
 
a. (Added) (AF) The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans, Programs & 
Requirements (AF/A5/8) is the Air Force office of primary responsibility. 
 
6. DoD CIO. In coordination with the CJCS, USD(AT&L), and the CCDRs, the DoD 
CIO annually sets priorities for enhancing DoD-wide command, control, and 
communication architectures. These priorities could inform provisions that: 
 
a. Support IW-related activities. 
 
b. Facilitate interoperability with interagency, nongovernmental, and foreign partners. 
 
7. DCAPE. The DCAPE analyzes and evaluates IW programs in relation to U.S. 
defense objectives, projected threats, allied contributions, non-DoD organizations’ 
contributions, estimated costs, and resource constraints. 
 
8. SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS. The Secretaries of the 
Military Departments: 
 
a. Maintain military capabilities and track the capacity and proficiency of the 
Military Services to meet CCDR IW-related requirements in accordance with strategic 
guidance documents. Ensure IW-training of deploying individuals and units is 
accomplished for operational conditions as established by CCDRs. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A5/8 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility for 
maintaining military capabilities as part of its role to develop military operational 
capability requirements through the Strategy, Planning, and Programming 
Process and track the capacity and proficiency of the AF to meet Combatant 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
Commander Irregular Warfare-related requirements in accordance with strategic 
guidance documents (as directed in Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-
56, Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Requirements, 28 January 2016).   
 
(2) (Added) (AF) The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) is the Air Force 
office of primary responsibility to ensure that Airmen and units are trained and 
equipped to conduct IW operations across the range of military operations and 
continuum of conflict, to include those deploying.  
 
(3) (Added) (AF) AF/A5/8 is the office of primary responsibility to ensure the Air 
Force is discharging Service responsibilities delineated in DoD Instruction 
3000.11, “Management of DoD Irregular Warfare (IW) and Security Force 
Assistance (SFA) Capabilities,” May 3, 2016, which implements part of Section 
8.a.  The three Service responsibilities delineated in DoD Instruction 3000.11 (in 
italics) and the Air Force offices primarily responsible for implementing each are 
below: 
 
a. (Added) (AF) “(1) Identify and track individuals with Irregular Warfare 
and Security Forces Assistance capabilities, as described in Section 3 of this 
issuance, to ensure the ability to provide trained and ready individuals, 
teams, and units to meet requirements identified by the Combatant 
Commanders. For civilian personnel, ensure compliance with Volume 1100 
of DoDI 1400.25. Establish standards appropriate to the organization, and 
track this information in a system that is centrally accessible.”  AF/A1 is the 
OPR to identify and track individuals with Irregular Warfare and 
Security Forces Assistance capabilities as described in Section 3 of DoD 
Instruction 3000.11.  In accordance with standards established by AF/A3, 
AF/A1 will track the skills, education, training and experience of 
individuals with Irregular Warfare and Security Forces Assistance 
capabilities through the Military Personnel Data System and other 
appropriate management tools.  AF/A1, in coordination with SAF/MR, 
will ensure compliance with Volume 1100 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for 
civilian personnel. 
 
 b. (Added) (AF) “(2) Report on tracking of personnel with Irregular 
Warfare and Security Forces Assistance capabilities through briefings to the 
Irregular Warfare and Security Forces Assistance Executive Steering 
Committee 6 months after issuance of this instruction and biennially 
thereafter in conjunction with the IW assessment required by DoDD 
3000.07.”  The office of primary responsibility is AF/A5/8, in coordination 
with AF/A1 and AF/A3. 
 
c. (Added) (AF) “(3) Ensure the identification and reporting of language 
and cultural capabilities required to support Irregular Warfare and Security 
Forces Assistance are in accordance with DoD Directive 5160.41E and DoD 
Instruction 3300.07”  The Air Force office of primary responsibility is 
AF/A1, in coordination with SAF/MR and AF/A2.   
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
b. Maintain scalable organizations capable of meeting CCDR requirements to assess, 
train, advise, assist, and equip foreign security forces and security institutions (unilaterally or 
as part of civilian-military teams). 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A3 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility in 
accordance with HAF Mission Directive 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, 8 
September 2015, and AF Policy Directive 16-1 Security Cooperation, 12 November 
2015. 
 
c. When directed and until indigenous, international, or U.S. civilian personnel can do 
so, maintain the capability to: 
 
(1) Provide civil security. 
 
(2) Restore essential government function. 
 
(3) Restore essential services. 
 
(4) Repair key infrastructure necessary to government function and to sustain human 
life. 
 
(5) Reform or rebuild indigenous security institutions. 
 
(6) (Added) (AF) AF/A5/8 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility for 
implementing strategy, policy, planning, and requirements aspects of 8.c. consistent 
with HAF Mission Directive 1-56.  AF/A3 is the office of primary responsibility for 
implementing operations aspects of 8.c. consistent with HAF Mission Directive 1-
54.  AF implementation is in accordance with AF Policy Directive 10-43, Stability 
Operations, 16 May 2011, Incorporating Change 1, 25 October 2013. 
 
d. Ensure curriculums in individual and unit training programs and Military Department 
schools prepare personnel for IW. Ensure all Service schools develop appropriate education 
and training programs and courses, reflecting joint and Military Department IW-relevant 
concepts, doctrine, and processes. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) The Air Education and Training Command (AETC) is the Air 
Force office of primary responsibility in coordination with AF/A3.  
  
e. Establish a representative, through designation at the Department or Service level as 
appropriate, who is accountable for discharging the responsibilities delineated in this 
directive. This representative should have the ability to describe service IW capability and 
the associated manpower and funding. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A5/8 is accountable for ensuring the Air Force discharges the 
responsibilities delineated in this directive.  As part of this role, AF/A5/8 represents 
the AF at the Irregular Warfare and Security Forces Assistance Executive Steering 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
Committee and Working Group co-chaired by the Joint Chiefs of Staff Directorate, 
Joint Force Development (JCS/J7) and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Special Operations/Low-Intensity Conflict, which manages DoD implementation of 
DoD Directive 3000.07.   
 
f. Biennially, help the CJCS assess the capability and capacity of the Military Services to 
conduct activities necessary to implement CCDR campaign and contingency plans related to 
IW. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A5/8 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility as part 
of its role to implement section 8.e. 
 
9. CJCS. The CJCS: 
 
a. Serves as the principal military advisor to the Secretary of Defense for IW and 
assists ASD(SO/LIC) oversight of Service training to ensure that the Military Services 
maintain the capabilities and capacity so that they are equally effective in irregular and 
traditional warfare. 
 
b. Leads the collaborative development of joint standards for IW-relevant training 
and readiness for the Military Services. 
 
c. Directs joint education and training, exercises, and concept development to ensure 
the Military Services are prepared to plan, conduct, and sustain missions involving IW. 
 
d. Identifies and validates IW-related DOTMLPF-P capability gaps and coordinates 
with appropriate capability developers to mitigate shortfalls. 
 
e. In conjunction with the CCDRs and the Secretaries of the Military Departments: 
 
(1) Maintains universal joint tasks for mission-essential tasks that support IW-
related activities and operations. 
 
a. (Added) (AF) AF/A3 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility. 
 
(2) Facilitates incorporation of proven IW-related concepts and lessons learned into 
joint doctrine. 
 
a. (Added) (AF) AETC is the Air Force responsibility. 
 
f. Biennially, in coordination USD(P), assesses Service capability and capacity to 
conduct activities necessary to implement CCDR campaign and contingency plans related to 
IW. Ensure appropriate non-DoD organizations capacity is planned for and incorporated into 
applicable Annexes to OPLANs. Incorporates the assessment into the annual risk assessment. 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
g. In coordination with the DoD CIO, USD(AT&L), and USD(I), develops architectures 
and standards to support interoperability with irregular and traditional warfare mission 
partners. 
 
10. CCDRs. The CCDRs: 
 
a. Identify IW-related requirements. 
 
b. Incorporate IW-related concepts and lessons learned into military training, exercises, 
and planning. 
 
c. Advise the ASD(SO/LIC) and CJCS on capacity and capability requirements 
to implement theater campaign and contingency plans relevant to IW. 
 
d. Recommend DOTMLPF-P changes to the CJCS, CDRUSSOCOM, and the Secretaries 
of the Military Departments to implement best practices across the Military Services. 
 
e. Help the CJCS: 
 
(1) Collaboratively develop joint standards for relevant IW Service training 
and readiness. 
 
(2) Collaboratively develop IW-relevant joint doctrine. 
 
(3) Biennially assess Service capability and capacity to conduct activities necessary 
to implement CCDR campaign and contingency plans related to IW. 
 
(4) Assess the availability and capacity of non-DoD organizations capability to 
meet CCDR campaign and contingency plans. 
 
f. Identify training requirements for forces deploying into an IW environment. 
Ensure deployment orders address mission essential IW training requirements. 
 
g. Develop CCMD specific training as required and ensure consistency with joint standards. 
 
h. Identify language, regional expertise, and culture capability requirements in 
accordance with DoDI 5160.70 (Reference (f)). 
 
11. CDRUSSOCOM. In addition to the responsibilities in section 10 of this enclosure, 
the CDRUSSOCOM: 
 
a. Assists the CJCS by coordinating the further development of those aspects of special 
operations forces (SOF) doctrine relevant to IW. Contributes to the integration and 
interdependence of SOF and conventional forces in relevant IW doctrine with the CJCS and 
the Secretaries of the Military Departments. 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
 (1) (Added) (AF) The Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) is the 
Air Force office of primary responsibility in coordination with AETC, AF/A3, 
and AF/A5/8.   
 
b. Leads the development of SOF IW-relevant training and education standards 
for individuals and units with the USD(P&R), the CJCS, and the Secretaries of the 
Military Departments. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AFSOC is the Air Force office of primary responsibility.   
 
c. Maintains and advances SOF capabilities for extending U.S. reach into denied areas 
and uncertain environments by operating with and through foreign forces or by conducting 
low- visibility operations. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AFSOC is the Air Force office of primary responsibility. 
 
d. In coordination with the CCDRs, the Secretaries of the Military Departments, and 
the CJCS, leads the identification of joint IW-relevant capabilities and recommend 
priorities for capability development to the Joint Requirements Oversight Council. 
 
(1) (Added) (AF) AF/A5/8 is the Air Force office of primary responsibility, in 
coordination with AFSOC. 
 
12. COMMANDER, UNITED STATES STRATEGIC COMMAND 
(CDRUSSTRATCOM). In addition to the responsibilities in section 10 of this enclosure, 
the CDRUSSTRATCOM advises and assists the CJCS and the USD(I) concerning the 
development of ISR, space, and cyber capabilities to counter irregular challenges or threats. 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
GLOSSARY 
 
PART I.  ABBREVIATIONS AND 
ACRONYMS 
 
ASD(SO/LIC) 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity 
Conflict 
CCDR 
Combatant Commander 
CJCS 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
CDRUSSOCOM 
Commander, United States Special Operations Command 
CDRUSSTRATCOM Commander, United States Strategic Command 
DCAPE 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
DoD CIO 
DoD Chief Information Officer 
DoDD 
DoD Directive 
DoDI 
DoD Instruction 
DOTMLPF-P 
doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, 
personnel, facilities, and policy 
ISR 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
IW 
irregular warfare 
MISO 
military information support operations 
SOF 
special operations forces 
USD(AT&L) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
USD(I) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
USD(P) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy 
USD(P&R) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness 
USG 
U.S. Government 
 
 
 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
PART II.  DEFINITIONS 
 
These terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this directive. 
 
civilian-military teams. Temporary organizations of civilian and military personnel 
specifically task-organized to provide an optimal mix of capabilities and expertise to 
accomplish specific operational and planning tasks, or to achieve objectives at the strategic, 
operational, or tactical levels. Civilian-military teams may conduct both overt and 
clandestine operations. 
 
counterinsurgency. Comprehensive civilian and military efforts designed to simultaneously 
defeat and contain insurgency and address its root causes. 
 
counterterrorism. Actions taken directly against terrorist networks and indirectly to 
influence and render global and regional environments inhospitable to terrorist networks. 
 
foreign internal defense. Participation by civilian and military agencies of a government in 
any of the action programs taken by another government or other designated organization to 
free and protect its society from subversion, lawlessness, insurgency, terrorism, and other 
threats to its security. 
 
irregular. Characterization used to describe a deviation from the traditional form of 
warfare where actors may use non-traditional methods such as guerrilla warfare, terrorism, 
sabotage, subversion, criminal activities, and insurgency for control of relevant 
populations. 
 
irregular force. Armed individuals or groups who are not members of the regular armed forces, 
police, or other internal security forces. 
 
IW. A violent struggle among state and non-state actors for legitimacy and influence over the 
relevant population(s). 
 
security forces. Duly constituted military, paramilitary, police, and constabulary forces of a 
state. 
 
(Added) (AF) security force assistance. The Department of Defense activities that 
support the development of the capacity and capability of foreign security forces and 
their supporting institutions.  Also called “SFA.” (JP 3-20) 
 
stability operations. An overarching term encompassing various military missions, tasks, and 
activities conducted outside the United States in coordination with other instruments of national 
power to maintain or reestablish a safe and secure environment, provide essential governmental 
services, emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief. 
 
traditional warfare. A form of warfare between the regulated militaries of states, or alliances 
of states, in which the objective is to defeat an adversary’s armed forces, destroy an 
DoDD3000.07    28 August 2014 
adversary’s war-making capacity, or seize or retain territory in order to force a change in an 
adversary’s government or policies. 
 
unconventional warfare. Activities conducted to enable a resistance movement or insurgency to 
coerce, disrupt, or overthrow a government or occupying power by operating through or with an 
underground, auxiliary, and guerrilla force in a denied area.  
