BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-18 
8 NOVEMBER 2018 
Operations 
FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL 
AIRCRAFT USE OF UNITED STATES 
AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OJ 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-18, 1 March 1997 
Certified by: HQ USAF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark D. Kelly) 
Pages: 7 
 
 
This directive establishes the framework and policy for the approval and use of United States Air 
Force airfields by foreign state aircraft and to balance United States Air Force operational needs 
with the furtherance of United States foreign policy and national security objectives by providing 
support to those aircraft while on United States Air Force installations.  This Directive 
implements Title 49 United States Code (USC) Section 40103, Sovereignty and use of airspace, 
Title 49 USC Section 44502, General facilities and personnel authority,  Title 32 Code of 
Federal Regulations, Part 855.14, Unauthorized landings, Title 10 USC Section 9626, Aircraft 
supplies and services: Foreign military or other state aircraft, Title 14 CFR, Part 187.51, 
Applicability of overflight fees, Title 32, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 700.860, 
Customs and immigration inspections and is consistent with  Department of Defense Manual 
(DoDM) 5200.01-V2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information.  
This Directive applies to all United States Air Force, Air National Guard and United States Air 
Force Reserve installations.  It also applies to all military and civilian United States Air Force 
personnel, members of the United States Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, and other 
individuals or organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department 
of the Air Force.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of 
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located 
in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  Refer recommended changes and 
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field 
through the appropriate functional chain of command. 
2 
AFPD10-18  8 NOVEMBER 2018 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  This revision 
expands foreign state aircraft policy and increases the scope of the roles and responsibilities to 
include addressing reciprocity, aviation fees, and application for foreign state aircraft and 
operators.  This publication changes the responsibilities from SAF/IAD to AF/A3. 
 
 
AFPD10-18  8 NOVEMBER 2018 
3 
1.  Overview.  The Air Force establishes and uses its airfields to support the range and level of 
operations necessary to carry out Air Force missions worldwide.  Air Force policies balance 
access requests with operational requirements.  This publication mandates the proper procedures 
for foreign state aircraft clearances that have been processed and approved through the 
Department of State and applies to state aircraft, which are aircraft owned and operated by a 
military organization or other agency of a foreign government, when such operation is not for 
commercial purposes. 
2.  Policy. 
2.1.  Navigation in the sovereign airspace of the United States by foreign state aircraft is in 
accordance with 49 USC §40103, Sovereignty and use of airspace, and must be authorized 
by the Secretary of State. 
2.2.  Foreign state aircraft that land at or fly above the continental United States, its 
territories, commonwealths and possessions, are required to obtain aircraft diplomatic 
clearance using the Department of State’s Diplomatic Clearance Application System.  
Clearances are requested through the appropriate foreign governmental authority (e.g., an 
office in the foreign governmental embassy or foreign mission to the U.S.), in accordance 
with the processes indicated in the Department of State Diplomatic Aircraft Clearance 
Procedures, or as otherwise directed by higher authority. 
2.3.  Consistent with the Federal Aviation Administration Aeronautical Information Manual: 
Official Guide to Basic Flight Information and ATC Procedures foreign state aircraft 
operating to or from, within, or in transit of United States territorial airspace will receive 
authorization from the Department of State by means of a diplomatic clearance. 
2.4.  Foreign state aircraft use of Air Force airfields in the United States will be subject to 
federal laws and regulations.  Foreign state aircraft use of Air Force airfields in foreign 
countries will be subject to federal laws and regulations that have extra-territorial effect and 
to applicable international bilateral and multilateral agreements with the country in which the 
Air Force installation is located. 
2.5.  In accordance with 14 CFR Part 187.51, Applicability of overflight fees, foreign state 
aircraft (those which are diplomatically cleared by Department of State) are not subject to air 
navigation, overflight, or similar fees for transit through the national airspace of the United 
States or through Flight Information Regions in international airspace.  Foreign state aircraft 
are not subject to landing and parking fees (or other available routine use fees) at United 
States Air Force Active, Guard or Reserve airfields. 
2.6.  Consistent with DoDD 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP), 32 CFR 
Part 700.860, Customs and immigration inspections, and United States Government 
reciprocity policy, foreign state aircraft (those which are diplomatically cleared by the 
Department of State are not subject to search, seizure, and inspection (including customs and 
safety inspections) or any other exercise of jurisdiction by the United States Government 
over such foreign state aircraft, or the personnel, equipment, or cargo on board. 
 
 
4 
AFPD10-18  8 NOVEMBER 2018 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) shall: 
3.1.1.  Serve as the United States Air Force principal foreign state aircraft clearance 
program office. 
3.1.2.  Establish United States Air Force policy and provide policy guidance and 
oversight for foreign state aircraft clearance. 
3.1.3.  Establish centralized processes to handle functional and programmatic issues 
related to foreign state aircraft clearances within the United States Air Force and with 
other United States Government components, as appropriate. 
3.1.4.  Ensure all foreign state aircraft clearance responsibilities and functions are 
executed in accordance with United States and international law, policies, and other 
Department of Defense issuances. 
3.1.5.  Ensure implementation of United States Air Force foreign state aircraft clearance 
policy by all Air Force Active, Guard or Reserve units. 
3.1.6.  Develop and publish administrative procedures for obtaining United States Air 
Force Aircraft Landing Authorization Numbers for foreign state aircraft diplomatic 
clearances. 
3.1.7.  With the exception of in-flight emergencies, ensure operation of foreign state 
aircraft at Air Force airfields is limited to flights in support of official government 
business. 
3.1.8.  Ensure Air Force requirements take precedence over foreign state aircraft 
operations, whether or not previously authorized. 
3.1.9.  Make decisions on all requests for exceptions or waivers to this policy directive 
and its implementing instruction.  The decision process includes consultation with other 
federal agencies and affected functional area managers if appropriate.  Potential impacts 
on current and future Air Force policy and operations strongly influence such decisions. 
3.2.  Major Commands, Field Operating Agencies, Direct Reporting Units, and Air Reserve 
Components may issue supplements to establish command-unique procedures permitted by 
and consistent with this directive and its implementing instructions. 
4.  See Attachment 2 for measures of compliance with this directive. 
 
HEATHER WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD10-18  8 NOVEMBER 2018 
5 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 Incorporating Change 2, 9 June 2016. 
Title 49, United States Code (USC) §40103, Sovereignty and use of airspace, 1 October 2011. 
Title 49, United States Code (USC) §44502, General facilities and personnel authority, 1 
October 2011. 
Title 10, United States Code (USC) §9626, Aircraft supplies and services: Foreign military or 
other state aircraft, 1 October 2011. 
Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 187.51, Applicability of overflight fees, 1 October 
2011. 
Title 32 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 700.860, Customs and immigration inspections, 1 
October 2011. 
DoDM 5200.01-V2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information, 24 
February 2012, Incorporating Change 2, 19 March 2013. 
DoDD 4500.54E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program (FCP), 28 December 2009. 
Federal Aviation Administration Aeronautical Information Manual, Paragraph 5-6-8, Foreign 
State Aircraft Operations, Basic Date 10 December 2015, Change 3 27 April 2017. 
Federal Aviation Administration Aeronautical Information Manual, Official Guide to Basic 
Flight Information and ATC Procedures, 12 October 2017 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF—Air Force 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System 
ATC—Air Traffic Control 
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDM—Department of Defense Manual 
FCP—Foreign Clearance Program 
6 
AFPD10-18  8 NOVEMBER 2018 
HQ—Headquarters 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule 
USC—United States Code 
Terms 
Foreign State Aircraft—For the purposes of this document, this phrase includes foreign 
military aircraft, government owned and operated aircraft, and aircraft which both parties 
(foreign government and U.S. Government) agree is operating as a state aircraft. This is often 
accomplished by the country flying the aircraft asking for and receiving a diplomatic clearance 
for the flight or flights.  Note: For the purposes of this document, the term “Foreign Government 
Aircraft” is used interchangeable with foreign state aircraft. 
 
AFPD10-18  8 NOVEMBER 2018 
7 
Attachment 2 
MEASURES OF COMPLIANCE 
A2.1.  The Air Force assesses compliance with this policy directive by tracking landing permits 
and unauthorized landings.  AF/A3OJ tracks the number of aircraft landing authorization 
numbers issued annually and the number of unauthorized landings at US Air Force airfields 
reported during the same period.  This information is compiled and displayed on a chart that 
shows trends in progress (Figure A2.1) toward the goal of reducing the number of unauthorized 
landings. 
Figure A2.1.  Sample Metric of AF/A3OJ Approved Aircraft Landing Authorizations and 
Landings Without Authorization. 
 
 
