BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-29 
13 FEBRUARY 2019 
Operations 
WORLDWIDE AEROMEDICAL 
EVACUATION OPERATIONS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3TM 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-29,  
                        6 November 2012 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark D. Kelly) 
Pages: 4 
 
 
This directive establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for Aeromedical Evacuation 
operations, implements DoDI 6000.11, Patient Movement, and is consistent with DoDI 4515.13, 
Air Transportation Eligibility.  It applies to the Active Component, the Air Force Reserve, and 
the Air National Guard.  Aeromedical Evacuation is a unique Air Force mission and one 
modality of the larger Department of Defense patient movement enterprise.  USAF Aeromedical 
Evacuation provides a critical patient movement capability that cuts across traditional service 
lines.  It is a Total Force mission requiring continuous collaboration between the operations (A3) 
and medical (SG) communities.  This directive specifies roles and responsibilities, notes policy 
interfaces, and defines key terms.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this 
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for 
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate functional’s 
chain of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System  Records Disposition 
Schedule. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include clarification of authorities and responsibilities in support of Aeromedical Evacuation 
operations. 
2 
AFPD10-29  13 FEBRUARY 2019 
 
1.  Policy. 
1.1.  Aeromedical Evacuation provides time-sensitive en route care of casualties to and 
between medical treatment facilities using USAF aircraft and/or contracted aircraft with 
medical aircrew trained explicitly for the mission.  Aeromedical Evacuation forces can 
operate as far forward as aircraft are able to conduct air operations, across the full range of 
military operations, and in all operating environments.  Aeromedical Evacuation will strive to 
ensure the rapid evacuation of patients during contingencies as necessary to prevent undue 
suffering and preserve military strength.  Specialty medical teams may be assigned to work 
with the Aeromedical Evacuation aircrew to support patients requiring more intensive 
enroute care. 
1.2.  The Air Force will ensure Aeromedical Evacuation unit mission readiness by 
conducting operational and training missions.  These missions require Aeromedical 
Evacuation clinical personnel to maintain currency and proficiency.  Although not resourced 
for humanitarian assistance, disaster response, or defense support to civil authorities, the Air 
Force will be prepared to provide Aeromedical Evacuation for these operations as directed by 
the National Command Authority. 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities:  
2.1.  The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) serves as lead for all airlift 
aspects of Aeromedical Evacuation and maintains overall responsibility for assigned 
Aeromedical Evacuation forces and missions.  This designation streamlines operational 
aircraft and personnel assigned to the Aeromedical Evacuation squadrons under the same 
authority.  AF/A3 is responsible for establishing and implementing operational training and 
evaluation guidance for Aeromedical Evacuation as outlined in the 10- and 11-series of Air 
Force publications. 
2.2.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) serves as lead for the medical aspects of 
Aeromedical Evacuation.  AF/SG will provide qualified personnel and equipment for basic, 
intermediate, or advanced life support care within the scope of Aeromedical Evacuation 
responsibilities; provide clinical training for Aeromedical Evacuation medical personnel; 
ensure qualified medical personnel accompany all patients for whom commercial movement 
is not medically appropriate; standardize Aeromedical Evacuation medical and nursing 
policies; manage Aeromedical Evacuation medical logistics, medical equipment, and War 
Reserve Materiel programs; evaluate Aeromedical Evacuation clinical training, practice, and 
outcomes; facilitate Aeromedical Evacuation process improvement via high-reliability-
organization principles; forecast and plan for future Aeromedical Evacuation clinical 
requirements; and ensure integration of the Aeromedical Evacuation system into the multi-
modal patient-movement system.  AF/SG is responsible for establishing and implementing 
clinical training and standards guidance for Aeromeidcal Evacuation as outlined in the entire 
40-series of Air Force publications. 
2.3.  Air Mobility Command (AMC) serves as the lead command for Aeromedical 
Evacuation.  As outlined in AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and 
Responsibilities, AMC will manage and coordinate with the other commands involved in air 
mobility operations, to include Aeromedical Evacuation, those processes designated to 
AFPD10-29  13 FEBRUARY 2019 
3 
enable the interoperability of air mobility forces regardless of the command.  AMC will 
maintain clear, detailed, and accountable standards in this mission area to ensure efficient 
resource employment and interoperability.  AMC ensures that appropriate forces are 
organized, trained, and equipped to perform the Aeromedical Evacuation mission across the 
full spectrum of operations to meet global Aeromedical Evacuation requirements.  All 
Aeromedical Evacuation forces will comply with lead MAJCOM readiness standards 
addressing operational and clinical requirements.  Aeromedical Evacuation will be fully 
coordinated through AMC and supporting MAJCOMs to ensure needs are identified and 
policies and procedures are thoroughly formulated. 
2.4.  MAJCOMs will forward to AMC for action recommendations of Aeromedical 
Evacuation commanders and Aeromedical Evacuation functional experts pertaining to 
training, standardization, equipment, clinical, communications, and planning issues based on 
current day practices and/or shortfalls. 
 
HEATHER WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
4 
AFPD10-29  13 FEBRUARY 2019 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDI 4515.13, Air Transportation Eligibility 
DoDI 6000.11, Patient Movement  
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records 
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AMC—Air Mobility Command 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
IAW—In Accordance With 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
SG—Surgeon General 
 
