BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-5 
2 OCTOBER 2019 
Operations 
BASING 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: SAF/IE 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-5,  
                        14 November 2013 
Certified by: SAF/IE  
(Mr. John W. Henderson) 
Pages: 8 
 
 
This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 18234 
Location and Use, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 2300.02K, 
Coordination of Overseas Force Structure Changes and Host Nation Notification, Department of 
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02 Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, and DoDI 
3200.18 Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB).  The 
Air Force basing process ensures Air Force installations are optimally used and tailored to meet 
long-term mission requirements.  Basing requests by the Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and the 
Air National Guard, as well as other Services/Agencies requesting basing on Air Force property 
are subject to the provisions of this publication.  This directive may not be supplemented at any 
level.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to SAF/IE using Air 
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route Air Force Form 847 from 
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. All records created pursuant to 
this policy will be maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of 
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located 
in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This directive supersedes previous versions of AFPD 10-5 and must be completely reviewed.  
This revision transfers responsibility for this publication to the Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force for Installations, Environment, and Energy (SAF/IE) and provides new policy for the 
strategic basing process. 
2 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
1.  Overview.   The Air Force must continue to conserve its land, facilities, infrastructure, and 
airspace to support its missions and its people.  The Air Force compiles data from the largest 
number of installations practical when making strategic basing decisions.  This process will be 
standardized, repeatable, transparent, and deliberate while ensuring the Air Force achieves 
mission requirements, follows environmental guidance, and considers the overall fiscal 
ramifications of the proposed action. 
2.  Policy.  The Strategic Basing Process will encompass both Air Force real property as well as 
non-Air Force real property that is used or leased by Air Force units.  The Air Force shall base its 
forces in order to most efficiently and effectively carry out its missions worldwide.  Unless 
otherwise delegated, the Secretary of the Air Force is the decision authority for all basing actions 
involving Air Force installations. 
3.  Strategic Basing Thresholds.   The thresholds for Air Force Strategic Basing actions are: 
3.1.  A weapons system change. 
3.2.  An organizational change request that changes the number of permanent party and/or 
contractor personnel authorizations by 35 or more. 
3.3.  A unit movement from one installation to another, or into any leased space. 
3.4.  A non-Air Force entity requesting to move onto an Air Force-controlled installation for 
more than a year. 
3.5.  Any action by a non-Air Force entity residing on an Air Force installation or Air Force 
real property that results in a change to their primary mission, to include any increase in 
airspace or range requirements/usage, or a change of 35 or more personnel. 
3.6.  Rotational forces requesting presence or temporary duty on an Air Force installation for 
more than 300 days in an 18-month period with an increase of 35 or more personnel, or 
requiring a military construction project. 
3.7.  Any special interest action, regardless of size or scope, that may require notification to, 
or approval by, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of Defense, or Congress. 
4.  Roles and Responsibilities  
4.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Energy (SAF/IE) 
is responsible for providing oversight of basing policy and guidance, the single point of 
contact for all basing actions, and is the office of primary responsibility for the Air Force 
Strategic Basing Structure.  SAF/IE is the review authority for site surveys, unit beddowns, 
and validates delegated authorities for all basing actions and basing decisions on Air Force 
property.  SAF/IE will designate a chair for the Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group 
not below a Deputy Assistant Secretary or three-letter equivalent. 
4.2.  Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy, Integration and Requirements (AF/A5) 
and Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will designate co-
chairs for the Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group not below the Deputy Assistant 
Secretary or three-letter equivalent. 
 
 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
3 
4.3.  AF/A8 will provide informational briefs to the Strategic Basing Structure on decisions 
in the Planning, Programming, Budget, and Execution process that would otherwise be 
Strategic Basing decisions as previously defined or effect previous basing decisions that have 
not met full operational capability. 
4.4.  In line with Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAF MD) 1-10, Assistant 
Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (SAF/AQ) is 
responsible for basing actions to include: government-owned, contractor operated facilities; 
the Depot Source of Repair; and Program Executive Officer Portfolio Assignment.  SAF/AQ 
will provide informational briefs to the Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group for 
actions that meet Strategic Basing thresholds as previously defined.  These actions may be 
required to utilize the Strategic Basing Process if determined to be a strategic basing action 
by SAF/IEIB. 
4.5.  Major Commands (MAJCOM) will submit strategic basing action requests to SAF/IE. 
The MAJCOM will work with the requester to develop the basing criteria based on known 
requirements, conduct site surveys, prepare National Environmental Policy Act and 
Headquarters Air Force documentation, and identify possible Air Force installations and sites 
worldwide. 
5.  Air Force Strategic Basing Governance 
5.1.  All strategic basing actions will follow the prescribed process to include review, 
administration, and advisement by the Air Force Strategic Basing Governance Structure. 
5.2.  The Air Force Strategic Basing Structure will review all proposed strategic basing 
actions.  The Air Force Strategic Basing Structure includes the Strategic Basing Panel and 
the Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group.  After a thorough review, the Strategic 
Basing Structure will advise the Secretary of the Air Force on proposed actions involving Air 
Force installations.  For overseas actions, the Secretary of the Air Force will present an 
official Air Force recommendation to the Secretary of Defense, who is the final decision 
authority. 
5.3.  The Air Force Strategic Basing Structure is the default corporate process for making 
strategic basing decisions. 
5.4.  All Air Force overseas basing decisions (including Overseas Force Structure Changes 
and Host Nation Notifications) are governed by CJCSI 2300.02K, Coordination of Overseas 
Force Structure Changes and Host Nation Notification.  All actions will be coordinated with 
the Joint Staff and the Office of the Secretary of Defense before obtaining approval at the 
required levels outside the Department of Defense. 
5.5.  To ensure compliance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. § 18234, Location and Use, all 
basing actions that require Office of the Secretary of Defense to acquire a facility under Title 
10 United States Code Section 18233, Acquisition, will be coordinated with the Secretary of 
Defense or his/her designee. 
5.6.  All basing actions transferring ownership or possession of any aircraft from the reserve 
component to/from ownership or possession by the active component must also comply with 
Public Law 111-383, Section 345, Requirements for transferring aircraft within the Air 
Force inventory. 
4 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
5.7.  All basing actions affecting capability or capacity at Air Force Major Range and Test 
Facility Bases must comply with DoDI 3200.18, Management and Operation of the Major 
Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB). 
5.8.  Strategic basing decisions must have Secretary of the Air Force approval prior to public 
announcement. Public announcements will be coordinated with Director of the Air Force 
Public Affairs (SAF/PA) and the Director of the Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL). 
5.9.  All proposed basing actions, both in the United States and overseas, will comply with 
the Title 42 United States Code Section 4321 et seq., National Environmental Policy Act 
(NEPA) of 1969; Title 32 Code of Federal Regulations Part 989, Environmental Impact 
Analysis Process; the President’s Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for 
Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA; and the Air Force's Environmental Impact 
Analysis Process. Overseas actions will also comply with Title 32 Code of Federal 
Regulations Part 187, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense 
Actions, and Executive Order 12114, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal 
Actions.  The Air Force’s Environmental Impact Analysis Process applies to all proposed 
actions, even where otherwise exempted from the basing process. 
6.  Exemptions.    The following actions are exempt from the Strategic Basing Process:  
6.1.  Base Realignment and Closure and contingency basing actions. 
6.2.  Expeditionary and contingency operations. 
6.3.  Strategic basing actions, which are temporary (less than one year or no more than 300 
days within an 18-month period), are the responsibility of the host or lead MAJCOM. 
6.4.  Air Force launch services pursuant to Title 51 United States Code, National and 
Commercial Space Programs – Acquiring United States. 
6.5.  Strategic basing decisions made as part of other Air Force-level decision-making 
processes, such as the Air Force Corporate Structure, and approved by the Secretary of the 
Air Force; however, process owners will provide informational briefs to the Strategic Basing 
Structure. 
6.6.  On a case-by-case basis, Air National Guard basing actions on an Air National Guard 
base may be exempted from the basing process by SAF/IEIB after coordination with the 
National Guard Bureau and consideration of DODI 1225.08, Reserve Components Facilities 
Programs and Unit Stationing, Title 10 United States Code Section 18238 and Title 32 
United States Code Section 104(a). 
6.7.  Exempted Non-Air Force Entities. Strategic basing requests for use of real property by 
non-AF entities listed below or as approved by SAF/IE that 1) benefit the AF, 2) do not 
adversely impact base missions or Base Operating Support funds, and 3) have no significant 
environmental impacts as demonstrated through Environmental Impact Analysis Process 
documentation that satisfies requirements in 32 CFR Part 989 are exempt. 
6.7.1.  Banks and Credit Unions. 
6.7.2.  Post Offices. 
6.7.3.  Grazing and Cropland leases. 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
5 
6.7.4.  Utility and Road Easements of a typical right-of-way nature. 
6.7.5.  Utilities and Roads granted by lease and license (e.g., telephone equipment boxes 
in a building, underground communications cables, use of AF poles for telephone lines, 
storm drainage ditch, rail spur; radio relay link, transmitter/receiver tower, cellular 
telephone towers, and above ground pipelines). Electronic emanation utilities are subject 
to frequency de-confliction. 
6.7.6.  Military Exchange retail, warehouse, and support operations. 
6.7.7.  Commissaries. 
6.7.8.  Morale, Welfare, and Recreation support activities (e.g., trap club, archery club, 
riding stables). 
6.7.9.  Base support activities (e.g., American Red Cross, thrift shop, collective 
bargaining unit offices, Civil Air Patrol, Lighthouse for the Blind base supply stores, 
Department of Defense Dependents Schools, Fisher House). 
6.7.10.  Outgrants or ingrants for use of facilities involving terms of five (5) years or less, 
placement of temporary structures, or renewals that result in no new resource impacts to 
the AF are exempt from the requirements of this directive. Actions that benefit the 
installation require compliance with Air Force instructions governing real property 
management. 
6.8.  Other exemptions are granted by the Secretary of the Air Force on a case-by-case basis 
after being evaluated with respect to the benefit of the Air Force, with consideration of 
lifecycle costs, and overall environmental impact. 
 
MATTHEW P. DONOVAN 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
6 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
10 U.S.C. § 2801, Scope of Chapter, Definitions 
10 U.S.C. § 2802, Military Construction Projects 
10 U.S.C. § 18234, Location and Use 
32 U.S.C. § 104(a), Units: Location; Organization; Command, 3 January 2012 
42 U.S.C. § 4321 et seq, National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
51 U.S.C. § 50913, National and Commercial Space Programs – Acquiring United States 
32 CFR Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process 
32 CFR Part 187, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions 
Public Law 111-383, Sect 345, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, 
Requirements for transferring aircraft within the Air Force inventory 
EO 12114, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions, 4 Jan 1979 
CJCSI 2300.02K, Coordination of Overseas Force Structure Changes and Host-Nation 
Notification, 2 April 2019 
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 7 January 2015 
DoDI 3200.18, Management and Operation of the Major Range and Test Facility Base 
(MRTFB), 1 February 2010 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
10 U.S.C. § 18233, Acquisition, 3 January 2012 
HAF MD 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), 2 September 2016 
DoDD 4275.5, Acquisition and Management of Industrial Resources, 15 March 2005 
DoDI 1225.08, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, 10 May 2016 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF—Air Force 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Document 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations 
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
HAF MD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
7 
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act 
U.S.C.—United States Code 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Terms 
AF Strategic Basing Structure—A deliberative body consisting of three elements: (1) the 
Basing proponent, (2) the Strategic Basing Panel, and (3) the Strategic Basing Executive 
Steering Group.  The AF Strategic Basing Structure presents courses of action to the Secretary of 
the Air Force and Chief of Staff of the Air Force, through coordination with the Air Force 
Corporate Structure for making criteria-based decisions. 
Beddown—The execution of a Secretary of the Air Force–approved basing action establishing a 
unit, mission, activity, or manpower on real property for longer than one year.  This applies to 
activities of all military branches, other DoD, non-DoD federal, state, and local governmental, 
and/or private agencies requesting the use of Air Force real property. 
Environmental Impact Analysis Process—Air Force process and procedures for environmental 
impact analysis both within the United States and abroad. The process is essential to achieve and 
maintain compliance with National Environmental Policy Act and the President’s Council on 
Environmental Quality National Environmental Policy Act Regulations. Related requirements 
and procedures are contained in various other Directives and Instructions. 
Installations—Air Force installations (Air Force Base, Air Base, Air Reserve Base, Air Guard 
Base, Air Force Station, Air Station, Air Reserve Station, or Air Guard Station), support sites, 
and other activities, and those facilities to which the Air Force, in overseas locations, has 
complete or partial access to on a temporary or standby basis. 
Military Construction—as defined in Title 10 United States Code 2801, Scope of Chapter, 
Definitions and 2802, Military Construction Projects includes any construction, development, 
conversion, or extension of any kind carried out with respect to a military installation.  Military 
construction includes construction projects for all types of buildings, roads, airfield pavements, 
and utility systems 
National Environmental Policy Act—NEPA requires federal agencies consider the 
environmental impacts of their actions and decisions, prior to any commitment or resources and  
requires Federal agencies to systematically assess the environmental impacts of their proposed 
actions and consider alternative ways of accomplishing their missions, which are less damaging 
to and protective of the environment. 
Non-Air Force Real Property—Real property not owned or managed by the Department of the 
Air Force. 
Other Activities—Air Force unit or activity that has little or no real property accountability for 
the real estate it occupies.  Examples include Active, Guard, or Reserve units that are located on 
installations belonging to other Services or leased office space that supports recruiting 
detachments, Civil Air Patrol, etc. 
8 
AFPD10-5  2 OCTOBER 2019 
Overseas—Locations situated outside of the Continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii and 
United States territories. 
Real Property—Land and improvements to land (e.g., buildings, structures, and linear 
structures).  Air Force Real Property is any right, title, or interest in land, buildings, fixed 
improvements, utilities, and other permanent additions to land. Examples include equipment 
attached to, and made part of, buildings and structures (such as heating systems), but not 
movable equipment (such as plant equipment). 
Site Survey—A field visit to an Air Force controlled base or parcels of real property for the 
purpose of evaluating it/them in light of a proposed relocation to that site(s).  The Air Force 
major commands or non-Air Force agencies make site survey requests to SAF/IEIB. 
Standby Facility—A facility or installation located on foreign territory but designated by the 
United States for contingency or wartime use with the consent of the host government, and at 
which the United States maintains little or no peacetime presence. 
Support Site—Facility operated by Active, Reserve, or Guard unit that provides general support 
to the Air Force mission and does not satisfy the criteria for a major or minor installation. 
Examples of support sites are: missile-tracking sites, radar bombing scoring sites, Air Force 
owned contractor-operated plants, and radio relay sites. 
Unit—A military organization constituted by higher headquarters U.S. Air Force or, for 
provisional units only, designated by a Major Command, Field Operating Agency, or Direct 
Reporting Unit. A unit is either named or numbered. 
 
