BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-21 
26 AUGUST 2019 
Operations 
RAPID GLOBAL MOBILITY 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: HQ AMC/A8X 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-21, 30 April 2014 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark D. Kelly) 
Pages: 5 
 
 
This publication implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5100.01, Functions of 
the Department of Defense and Its Major Components.  The purpose of this publication is to 
ensure effective operation of air mobility forces through Rapid Global Mobility.  It applies to all 
military and civilian Air Force personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve and Air National 
Guard, and individuals or activities authorized by an appropriate government official to conduct 
air mobility operations.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of 
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located 
in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  Refer recommended changes and 
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field 
through the appropriate functional chain of command.  This publication may be supplemented at 
any level, but all Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination 
prior to certification or approval. Only the United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, 
Operations or any authority above the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations may grant 
waivers to this directive. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed completely. Major changes 
include administrative updates, clarification of existing language, and updates to the Glossary of 
References and Supporting Information at Attachment 1. 
2 
AFPD10-21  26 AUGUST 2019 
1.  Overview.    Rapid Global Mobility (RGM) is a core mission of the United States Air Force 
(USAF).  The Air Mobility Command mission is Rapid Global Mobility… Right Effects, Right 
Place, Right Time.  This publication establishes policy and provides directive guidance for Air 
Mobility Command (AMC) lead command roles and responsibilities.  RGM requires 
coordination and cooperation across USAF Major Commands (MAJCOMs). This means 
commands with an air mobility mission must work together to reach consistent standardization 
and synchronization of air mobility operations. 
2.  Policy. 
2.1.  Critical processes and systems associated with any particular mission area must be 
interoperable and compatible.  The lead command for a mission area will coordinate, 
manage, and direct the development and maintenance of concepts, processes, and force 
structure associated with that mission area. 
2.2.  Air Mobility Command is the Air Force-designated lead command for RGM, including 
airlift, air refueling, aeromedical evacuation, and air mobility support functions. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities.    This directive establishes the following authorities and 
responsibilities to enable the interoperability of air mobility forces. 
3.1.  The AMC Commander will: 
3.1.1.  Coordinate with all USAF Mobility Air Force commands to ensure representation 
of USAF-wide air mobility requirements in the development of Department of Defense 
component and joint doctrine, guidance, standards, and other issuances. This includes, 
but is not limited to coordination on the efforts described below: 
3.1.1.1.  Develop tactics, techniques, procedures, and mission essential task lists 
necessary for air mobility force integration.  Include complimentary and interoperable 
command relationships and command and control procedures. 
3.1.1.2.  Establish, in coordination with the other MAJCOMs, the command and 
control processes for RGM, including airlift, air refueling, aeromedical evacuation, 
and air mobility support.  Coordinate with United States Transportation Command, 
Air Force Special Operations Command, and Air Operations Centers. 
3.1.1.3.  Develop publications supporting this directive, with the participation and 
coordination of MAJCOM’s with air mobility mission capabilities and Headquarters 
Air Force two-letter office(s) with functional or oversight responsibilities. 
3.1.1.4.  Formulate and manage air mobility inspection and evaluation standards 
applicable to all Mobility Air Forces. 
3.1.1.5.  Formulate and manage air mobility training events and employment tactics 
applicable to all Mobility Air Forces. 
3.1.1.6.  Maintain clear, detailed, and measurable standards in this mission area to 
ensure efficient employment and interoperability of forces. 
3.1.2.  Establish periodic Air Mobility MAJCOM conferences to discuss and resolve 
issues of mutual concern. 
3.1.3.  Create standardized organizational templates for RGM force structure. 
AFPD10-21  26 AUGUST 2019 
3 
3.1.4.  Ensure all air mobility commands fully participate in leadership development 
programs and commander selections. 
3.1.5.  Establish and maintain programs and curricula at the USAF Expeditionary Center 
that satisfy advanced mobility and combat support training and educational needs of all 
Mobility Air Forces. 
3.1.6.  Identify future RGM requirements and modernization demands. Incorporate them 
into the Air Force and joint modernization planning processes, to include the Joint 
Capabilities Integration and Development System.  This process includes modifications 
for fleet-wide interoperability and commonality on airlift-type airframes currently 
employed in mission areas other than air mobility. 
3.1.7.  Act as the RGM advocate within the Air Force planning, programming, budgeting, 
and execution process. Respond to issues addressing RGM significance and proper use.  
Advocacy includes planning, programming, and budgeting inputs for system-wide 
equipment and personnel. 
3.1.8.  Establish and maintain logistics program standards to support fleet-wide 
configuration control efforts, and ensure worldwide supportability and interoperability. 
Include operational logistics for planned and future military engagements.  If necessary, 
the other air mobility commands may supplement due to validated, component-unique 
operational requirements. 
3.1.9.  Advocate for RGM integrated data standards and systems to effectively plan 
operations, manage cargo and passengers, and provide in-transit visibility across the 
Services, defense agencies, and combatant commands. 
3.1.10.  Manage the RGM process to formulate destination airport analysis supporting 
global air mobilization operations.  Include foreign terminal instrument procedure review, 
airfield suitability, and landing zone assessment processes and products.  Other 
MAJCOMs with unique air mobility mission requirements may supplement analysis 
products as required. 
3.2.  MAJCOM Commanders with air mobility mission capabilities will: 
3.2.1.  Fully participate in the activities listed under 3.1.1. to ensure needs are identified 
and policies are thoroughly formulated. 
3.2.2.  Retain responsibility for accomplishing the activities outlined in 3.1.1. for 
command- and mission-unique equipment, modifications, and missions. 
3.2.3.  Set up peacetime and wartime theater air mobility command and control in 
coordination with AMC. 
 
MATTHEW P. DONOVAN 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
4 
AFPD10-21  26 AUGUST 2019 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components, 21 
December 2010 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AMC—Air Mobility Command 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
Terms 
Airlift—Operations to transport and deliver passengers, cargo, and forces through the air in 
support of strategic, operational, or tactical objectives. 
Aeromedical Evacuation—The movement of patients under medical supervision to and 
between medical treatment facilities by air transportation. 
Air Mobility—The rapid movement of personnel, materiel and forces to and from or within a 
theater by air.  For this publication, it encompasses all mission areas, to include airdrop and 
airland delivery, air refueling, cargo and passenger airlift, nuclear mission support, operational 
support airlift, special operations, defense support to civil authorities, aeromedical evacuation, 
air base opening, and the associated air mobility support missions and functions. 
Air Mobility Support—The capability, concept, and entity to provide responsive command and 
control and ground support to air mobility forces, worldwide. 
Air Refueling—The refueling of an aircraft in flight by another aircraft. 
In—Transit Visibility - The ability to track the identity, status, and location of Department of 
Defense units, and non-unit cargo (excluding bulk petroleum, oil, and lubricants) and passengers; 
patients; and personal property from origin to consignee or destination across the range of 
military operations. 
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System—Supports identifying, assessing, 
validating, and prioritizing joint military capability requirements while considering the full range 
of materiel and non-materiel solutions (i.e., doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership 
and education, personnel, facilities and policy [DOTmLPF-P]). 
Mobility Air Forces—Air components and Service components assigned air mobility forces, or 
routinely exercise command authority over mobility operations. 
AFPD10-21  26 AUGUST 2019 
5 
Operational Support Airlift—Operational support airlift missions are movements of high-
priority passengers and cargo with time, place, or mission-sensitive requirements.  Operational 
support airlift aircraft are those fixed-wing aircraft acquired or retained exclusively for 
operational support airlift missions, as well as any other Department of Defense-owned or 
controlled aircraft, fixed or rotary-wing, used for operational support airlift purposes. 
Rapid Global Mobility—The capability of timely movement, positioning, and sustainment of 
military forces and mission sets across the range of military operations. 
 
