BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-45 
11 SEPTEMBER 2020 
Operations 
SUPPORT TO CIVIL SEARCH AND 
RESCUE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3TC 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-45,  
                        26 October 2012 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Joseph T. Guastella Jr.) 
Pages: 6 
 
 
This directive implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3003.01, Civil Search and 
Rescue (SAR).  It establishes the policy for a coordinated civil SAR program to reduce the loss of 
life, suffering, and property damage caused during an emergency or incident.  This publication 
applies to Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units. Submit proposed 
changes to this directive through functional channels to the office of primary responsibility 
(OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Ensure all records 
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with 
Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, and 
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air 
Force Records Information Management System. The authorities to waive requirements that are 
directed by agencies external to the Air Force are identified with a Tier zero (“T-0”) following 
the compliance statement.  See DAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a 
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers 
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major 
changes include: (1) updates to the governing policy documents, (2) updated Major Command 
responsibilities, (3) deletion and addition of Major Commands with responsibilities. 
2 
AFPD10-45  11 SEPTEMBER 2020 
1.  Policy.  The United States Air Force will provide support to civil Search and Rescue (SAR) to 
the fullest extent practicable, on a non-interference basis with primary military duties, under the 
authorities set forth in, and with regard to the content within, the following documents: 
1.1.  United Nations International Maritime Organization, International Aeronautical and 
Maritime Search and Rescue Manual, current edition. (T-0). 
1.2.  Department of Homeland Security, National Search and Rescue Plan. (T-0). 
1.3.  Department of Homeland Security, National Search and Rescue Addendum to 
International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual. (T-0). 
1.4.  DoDI 3003.01, DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue. (T-0). 
1.5.  Department of Homeland Security, Catastrophic Incident Search and Rescue Addendum 
to the National Search and Rescue Supplement to the International Aeronautical Maritime 
Search and Rescue Manual. (T-0). 
1.6.  Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5, Management of Domestic Incidents. (T-0). 
1.7.  Department of Homeland Security, National Response Framework. (T-0). 
1.8.  Federal Emergency Management Agency, Emergency Support Function #9-Search and 
Rescue Annex. (T-0). 
1.9.  Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
(DSCA). (T-0). 
1.10.  Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-8, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
2.1.  The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) interprets and implements 
civil SAR policy and shall: 
2.1.1.  Provide oversight and approval of guidance pertaining to United States Air Force 
support to civil SAR. 
2.1.2.  Designates the SAR mission coordinator as the civil SAR expert to serve, in close 
coordination with the Senior Analyst Personnel Recovery, Counter-Terror Policy, as a 
member of the Joint SAR Working Group the International Civil Aviation Organization 
and the International Maritime Organization sponsor jointly. 
2.2.  Headquarters Air Combat Command.  In accordance with AFPD 10-30, Personnel 
Recovery, Air Combat Command is the lead command for Personnel Recovery, and 
identified by Air Force senior leadership as the Core Function Lead Integrator, to include 
United States Air Force support to civil SAR.  Furthermore, in accordance with AFPD 10-27, 
Civil Air Patrol, Air Combat Command shall: 
2.2.1.  Serve as the Major Command-level force provider of Civil Air Patrol to the 
appropriate Combatant Commander and will provide program advocacy.  Air Combat 
Command staff will provide programmatic support for Civil Air Patrol.  Air Combat 
Command Logistics Contracting is authorized to approve and take all other appropriate 
actions with respect to Civil Air Patrol’s Cooperative Agreement, consistent with 
statutes, program guidance, and/or Air Force directives. 
AFPD10-45  11 SEPTEMBER 2020 
3 
2.2.2.  Provide appropriate instructor staff for the National SAR School for resident and 
field training in the areas of aeronautical and land civil SAR. (T-0). 
2.2.3.  Develop, maintain and sustain 24-hour operation of the Joint Search and Rescue 
Satellite-Aided Tracking electronic tracking system. (T-0). Ensure the system contains a 
mission management tool for both the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center and Alaska 
Rescue Coordination Center enabling continuous availability to users and responder 
organizations. Maintain the currency of the system’s underlying software and web-
enabled features as well as adequate system back-up and mirroring. (T-0). 
2.2.4.  In coordination with the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center, Alaska Rescue 
Coordination Center, and Federal SAR coordinator, identify requirements, funding and 
manpower needed to operate fully functional Rescue Coordination Centers to promote 
efficient organization of SAR services, and coordinate the conduct of civil SAR 
operations within the inland U.S. Search and Rescue Region corresponding to the 48 
contiguous States and Alaska, in accordance with the guidance in DoDI 3003.01. (T-0). 
2.2.5.  Provide funding, manpower and personnel services needed to operate a fully 
functional Rescue Coordination Center to promote efficient organization of SAR services 
and coordinate the conduct of civil SAR operations within the inland U.S. Search and 
Rescue Regions corresponding to the 48 contiguous States, in accordance with the 
guidance in DoDI 3003.01. (T-0). 
2.3.  National Guard Bureau.  In accordance with Program Change Request 93-03, Chief, 
National Guard Bureau shall provide funding, manpower and personnel services needed to 
operate a fully functional Rescue Coordination Center to promote efficient organization of 
SAR services and coordinate the conduct of civil SAR operations within the inland U.S. 
Search and Rescue Regions corresponding to Alaska in accordance with the guidance in 
DoDI 3003.01. 
2.4.  Pacific Air Forces.  In accordance with AFPD 10-27.  Pacific Air Forces shall serve as 
the responsible Major Command responsible for Air Force Auxiliary operational missions 
within its area of responsibility. 
 
BARBARA BARRETT 
Secretary of the Air Force 
4 
AFPD10-45  11 SEPTEMBER 2020 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFPD 10-8, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 4 June 2018 
AFPD 10-27, Civil Air Patrol, 2 July 2018 
AFPD 10-30, Personnel Recovery, 28 August 2018 
DAFI 33-360, 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 29 December 2010 
DoDI 3003.01, DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue (SAR), 26 September 2011 
Department of Homeland Security, Catastrophic Incident Search and Rescue Addendum to the 
National Search and Rescue Supplement to the International Aeronautical Maritime Search and 
Rescue Manual, Version 3.0, June 2012 
Department of Homeland Security, National Response Framework, 29 October 2019 
Department of Homeland Security, National Search and Rescue Plan, 14 November 2016 
Department of Homeland Security, National Search and Rescue Addendum to International 
Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual, 23 April 2018 
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Emergency Support Function #9-Search and Rescue 
Annex, June 2016 
Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5, Management of Domestic Incidents, 28 February 
2003 
Program Change Reques,, 93-03 
United Nations International Maritime Organization, International Aeronautical and Maritime 
Search and Rescue Manual, current edition 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Form 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
AFPD10-45  11 SEPTEMBER 2020 
5 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
SAR—Search and Rescue 
U.S.—United States 
Terms 
Civil Search and Rescue (SAR)—Search and rescue operations in the air, on the land, and on 
the water to assist persons and protect life in a permissive environment.  Examples of these 
rescue scenarios include, but are not limited to, downed aviators, stranded sportsmen, lost 
boaters, and mass rescue operations. 
Core Function Lead Integrators—Secretary of the Air Force/Chief of Staff of the Air Force-
designated leaders who serve as the principal integrators for their assigned Service Core 
Functions and the corresponding Core Function Master Plans. Core Function Lead Integrators 
guide Service Core Functions maturation and Service Core Function-related investments by 
orchestrating the development of Service Core Function strategy in collaboration with key 
stakeholders across the Air Force, including Headquarters Air Force functionals, Major 
Commands and the Air Reserve Components.  
Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA)—Support provided by U.S. Federal military 
forces, DoD civilians, DoD contract personnel, DoD Component assets, and National Guard 
forces (when the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Governors of the affected States, 
elects and requests to use those forces in Title 32 of the United States Code status) in response to 
requests for assistance from civil authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement support, 
and other domestic activities, or from qualifying entities for special events.  Also known as civil 
support. 
International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual—A publication that 
contains guidelines for search and rescue in terms of shipping and aviation to ensure cooperation 
between the two areas of operation is effective and that operational cooperation can be carried 
out in actual rescue operations between different countries, organizations, and rescue units.  The 
primary purpose of the manual is to assist States in meeting their own search and rescue needs, 
and the obligations they accepted under the Convention on International Civil Aviation 
(Chicago, 1944), the International Convention for Maritime Search and Rescue (Hamburg, 
1979) and the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (London, 1913). 
Non-Interference Basis With Primary Military Duties—The performance and support of 
Search and Rescue Services that does not interfere with combat or homeland defense 
operations or interfere with the deployment or redeployment activities of combat or homeland 
defense operations.  The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy delegates to the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Special Operations/Low-Intensity Conflict ASD(SO/LIC) the authority 
to waive non-interference requirements on a case by case basis. 
Search and Rescue Services—The performance of distress monitoring, communication, 
coordination and search and rescue functions, including provision of medical advice, initial 
medical assistance, or medical evacuation, through the use of public and private resources, 
including cooperating aircraft, vessels, and other craft and installations. 
 
 
6 
AFPD10-45  11 SEPTEMBER 2020 
Service Core Functions—Service Core Functions delineate the appropriate and assigned core 
duties, missions, and tasks of the Air Force as an organization, responsibility for each of which is 
assigned to a Control Function Lead Integrator.  Service Core Functions express the ways in 
which the Air Force is particularly and appropriately suited to contribute to national security. 
Service Core Functions are an integral aspect of the Air Force Strategic Planning System, and 
provide the framework for Air Force organizing, training, and equipping efforts, however, they 
do not necessarily express every aspect of what the Air Force contributes to the nation. 
 
