BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-24 
5 NOVEMBER 2019 
Operations 
MISSION ASSURANCE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OB 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-24, 28 April 2006 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark D. Kelly) 
Pages: 9 
 
 
This directive implements DoD Directive (DoDD) 3020.40, Mission Assurance (MA), and DoD 
Instruction (DoDI) 3020.45, Mission Assurance Construct, and incorporates the Critical Asset 
Risk Management (CARM) Program to execute defense critical infrastructure (DCI) 
requirements.  It provides Air Force policy on the implementation of Mission Assurance.  This 
publication applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, 
Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, contractors and consultants, and non-DoD U.S. 
Government Agencies whose personnel, by mutual agreement, require support from or conduct 
operational activity with the Air Force. This publication may not be supplemented.  Refer 
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary 
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route 
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure all 
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in 
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in 
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records 
Information Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication is substantially revised from the previous version and must be completely 
reviewed.  Major changes include recent programmatic and publication changes, Headquarters 
Air Force (HAF) realignment, and changes to the partner programs under MA.  It integrates the 
CARM Program into MA policy.  In addition, this publication revises and establishes the roles 
and responsibilities of HAF, major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and 
direct reporting units (DRU) for MA. 
2 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
1.  Policy.  It is Air Force policy to prioritize Mission Assurance efforts to fulfill critical DoD 
and service-specific strategic missions.  These include DoD or component-level mission-
essential functions and combatant command execution of operations plans, concept plans, and 
core joint mission-essential task.  The Air Force shall: 
1.1.  Establish policy and implement MA as a process to protect or ensure the continued 
function and resilience of capabilities and assets by refining, integrating, and synchronizing 
the aspects of the Air Force Mission Assurance-Related Programs and Activities (MARPA) 
in accordance with DoDD 3020.40.  Authorizes and establishes Deputy Chief of Staff 
Operations (AF/A3) as the Air Force’s OPR with sufficient authorities to accomplish 
assigned tasks including MA process execution across the AF.  Maintains CARM Program 
and associated program element code (PEC) to execute DCI requirements. 
1.2.  Appoint a general officer or member of the senior executive service (SES) from AF/A3 
as the AF MA lead, responsible for integrating MA efforts across the AF. 
1.3.  Establish an MA Forum, and processes necessary to synchronize the MARPAs and 
provide an enterprise-wide, integrated organizational perspective to MA policy development, 
risk management framework, resource advocacy, oversight, implementation, and training. 
1.4.  Implement the DoD MA Construct and incorporate the CARM Program to identify, 
assess, manage, and monitor the risk to task critical assets and DCI deemed essential to 
strategic mission execution. 
1.5.  Collect, analyze, and disseminate MA-related information enhancing risk-management 
decision processes to execute the National Defense Strategy. 
1.6.  Direct all AF tenant units on an installation or residing in separate defense agency-
owned or commercial leased spaces, to participate in applicable installation MA structures 
and processes.  AF owned installations or spaces shall include DoD tenant units in applicable 
installation MA structures and processes. 
1.7.  Direct specific functional offices to assume OPR duties for each program falling under 
the MA umbrella.  At the same time, directs these OPRs to continue these duties and 
incorporate the MA guidance necessary to synchronize and integrate program objectives.  
The Air Force MARPAs derived from DoDD 3020.40 are listed in Table 1 
 
 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
3 
Table 1.  AF MA-Related Programs and Activities (MARPA). 
MARPA 
HAF OPR 
Adaptive Planning 
AF/A8 
Antiterrorism 
AF/A4 
Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability 
AF/A10 
Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear high-yield Explosive (CBRNE) 
Preparedness  
AF/A4 
Continuity of Operations  
AF/A3 
Critical Asset Risk Management (DCI) 
AF/A3 
Cybersecurity  
SAF/CN & AF/A2/6 
Defense Security Enterprise 
SAF/AA 
Emergency Management  
AF/A4 
Energy Resilience  
SAF/IE  
Fire Prevention and Protection  
AF/A4 
Force Health Protection  
AF/SG 
Insider Threat  
SAF/AA 
Law Enforcement 
AF/A4 
Munitions Operations Risk Management  
AF/SE 
Operational Energy  
SAF/IE 
Readiness Reporting  
AF/A3 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
2.1.  Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA).  SAF/AA 
will: 
2.1.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and activities 
under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.1.2.  Inform the AF MA office of any identified concerns of the Committee on Foreign 
Investment in the United States. 
2.1.3.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). SAF/AQ will: 
2.2.1.  Maintain responsibility for the acquisition and sustainment of prioritized systems 
and assets identified as critical. 
2.2.2.  Incorporate MA risk remediation and mitigation plans, as appropriate, into 
industrial preparedness, contracting, services acquisition, science and technology, and life 
cycle management policies, procedures, and planning. 
2.2.3.  Serve as the MA Defense Industrial Base (DIB) functional area lead, and provide a 
DIB functional area representative to the AF MA forum as needed. 
2.2.4.  Interface with AF senior leadership and advocate for resources to support high-
priority DIB requirements. 
 
 
4 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
2.3.  Air Force Deputy Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN).  SAF/CN will: 
2.3.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and activities 
under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.3.2.  Provide subject matter experts (SMEs) to participate in MA processes as 
requested. 
2.4.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Energy 
(SAF/IE).  SAF/IE will: 
2.4.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and activities 
under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.4.2.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.5.  Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG). SAF/IG will: 
2.5.1.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.5.2.  Ensure the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), in coordination 
with the AF MA office, provides policy and oversight regarding intelligence, threat, and 
counterintelligence (CI) support to the AF MA community stakeholders as needed. 
2.6.  Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE).  AF/SE will: 
2.6.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and activities 
under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.6.2.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.7.  Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG).  AF/SG will: 
2.7.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and activities 
under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.7.2.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.8.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6).  AF/A2/6 will: 
2.8.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and activities 
under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.8.2.  Advise the AF MA Forum on MA equities related to: intelligence, surveillance, 
reconnaissance, 
AF 
Intelligence 
Community, 
Joint 
Worldwide 
Intelligence 
Communication System, cyber assurance, threat analysis and reporting necessary to meet 
continuing responsibilities for AF MARPAs. 
2.8.3.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.9.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3).  AF/A3 will: 
2.9.1.  Serve as the OPR for programs and activities under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.9.2.  Serve as the Air Force MA OPR. In that role AF/A3 shall: 
2.9.2.1.  Establish the MA Forum and lead processes necessary to synchronize the 
MARPAs. 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
5 
2.9.2.2.  Establish MA goals, objectives, and standards; and conduct MA education 
outreach and training as needed. 
2.9.2.3.  Implement the DoD MA Construct, which is the DoD’s approach to manage 
risk to the Department’s strategic missions. 
2.9.2.4.  Ensure relevant, timely, and actionable information is shared with MA 
community stakeholders. 
2.9.2.5.  Provide staffing and resources the MA Integration Lead Division 
(AF/A3OB) needs to fulfill its responsibilities under the DoD MA Construct. 
2.9.2.6.  Participate in Joint Staff (JS) Mission Assurance Coordination Board 
(MACB) forums, as prescribed in DoDD 3020.40. 
2.9.2.7.  Support the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s (CJCS) integrated MA 
Assessment Program (MAAP). 
2.10.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering, and Force Protection (AF/A4).  
AF/A4 will: 
2.10.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and 
activities under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.10.2.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.10.3.  Support the CJCS’s integrated MAAP. 
2.11.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs (AF/A8).  AF/A8 will: 
2.11.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and 
activities under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.11.2.  Serve as the AF planning, programming and associated resources allocation lead 
for AF MARPAs. 
2.11.3.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.12.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10).  
AF/A10 will: 
2.12.1.  Participate in the AF MA Forum and serve as the OPR for programs and 
activities under their purview (see Table 1). 
2.12.2.  Provide SMEs to participate in MA processes as requested. 
2.13.  All other HAF Agencies will:  Participate in the MA Forum and provide SMEs as 
requested. 
2.14.  Major Command Commanders, FOA, and DRU Commanders will:    Develop, 
coordinate and implement MA activities, policies and procedures for the oversight, 
execution, management, and administration of the programs under their command to support 
the MA Construct.  Organizations with task critical assets will carry out CARM 
programmatic responsibilities. 
 
 
6 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
2.15.  AF Installation Mission Support Center (AFIMSC) and Primary Support Units (PSUs) 
will:  Review, coordinate and implement MA activities, policies and procedures for the 
oversight, execution, management, and administration of programs to support the MA 
Construct. AFIMSC is to coordinate with the MAJCOM gatekeeper role in support of the 
MAAP. 
 
MATTHEW DONOVAN 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
7 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 3020.40, Mission Assurance, November 29, 2016, Change 1 September 11, 2018 
DoDI 3020.45, Mission Assurance (MA) Construct, August 14, 2018 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms  
AF—Air Force 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber 
Effects Operations 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering, and Force Protection 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
AF/SE—Air Force Chief of Safety 
AF/SG—Surgeon General of the Air Force 
AFIMSC—Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
CARM—Critical Asset Risk Management 
CBRN—chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear 
CBRNE—chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-yield explosives 
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
DCA—defense critical asset 
DCI—defense critical infrastructure 
DIB—defense industrial base 
DoD—Department of Defense 
8 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DRU—direct reporting unit 
HAF—Headquarters Air Force 
JS—Joint Staff 
MA—Mission Assurance 
MAAP—Mission Assurance Assessment Program 
MACB—Mission Assurance Coordination Board 
MAJCOM—major command 
MARPA—Mission Assurance-Related Programs and Activities 
OPR—office of primary responsibility 
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense 
PEC—program element code 
PSU—primary support unit 
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force 
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition 
SAF/CN—Deputy Chief Information Officer 
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Energy 
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General 
SES—senior executive service 
SME—subject matter expert 
TCA—task critical asset 
Terms 
Asset—A distinguishable entity that provides a service or capability.  Assets are people, physical 
entities, or information located either within or outside the United States and employed, owned, 
or operated by domestic, foreign, public, or private sector organizations. 
Defense critical asset (DCA)—An asset of such extraordinary importance to operations in 
peace, crisis, and war that its incapacitation or destruction would have a very serious, debilitating 
effect on the ability of the DOD to fulfill its missions. 
Defense critical infrastructure (DCI)—Department of Defense and non-Department of 
Defense networked assets and facilities essential to project, support, and sustain military forces 
and operations worldwide. 
AFPD10-24  5 NOVEMBER 2019 
9 
Hazard—A condition that potentially causes injury, illness, or death of personnel; damage to or 
loss of equipment or property; or mission degradation. 
Infrastructure—The framework of interdependent physical and cyber-based systems 
comprising identifiable industries, institutions (including people and procedures), and 
distribution capabilities that provide a reliable flow of products and services essential to the 
defense and economic security of the United States, to the smooth functioning of government at 
all levels, and to society as a whole. 
Integration—The arrangement of efforts to reduce redundancy and operate as a whole. 
Mission Assurance (MA)—A process to protect or ensure the continued function and resilience 
of capabilities and assets – including personnel, equipment, facilities, networks, information and 
information systems, infrastructure, and supply chains – critical to the execution of DoD 
mission-essential functions in any operating environment or condition. 
Mission Assurance assessment (MAA)—Assessment of the discipline under the mission 
assurance umbrella (antiterrorism; DCI; chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and high-
yield explosive preparedness; chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear survivability; 
emergency management; cybersecurity; explosives safety; physical security; continuity of 
operations, force health protection) to identify vulnerabilities and gaps that could prevent 
accomplishment of a unit, installation, or higher authority mission. 
Mission Assurance Construct—The DoD-wide risk management approach that synchronizes 
and integrates aspects of multiple security, protection, and risk management efforts throughout 
DoD to manage the risk to the Department’s strategic missions.  The MA Construct is made up 
of four process:  identification, assessment, risk management, and monitoring. 
Mission Assurance Coordination Board (MACB)—A Governance structure co-led by OSD 
and JS focused on issue resolution for defense critical assets (DCAs) and select task critical 
assets (TCAs). 
Risk—The probability and severity of loss linked to threats or hazards and vulnerabilities. 
Risk management—A process by which decision makers accept, reduce, or offset risk and 
subsequently make decisions that weigh overall risk against mission benefits.  Risk management 
is composed of risk assessment and risk response. 
Task critical asset (TCA)—An asset of such extraordinary importance that its incapacitation or 
destruction would have a serious, debilitating effect on the ability of one or more DoD or OSD 
Components to execute the capability or mission-essential task it supports.  TCAs are used to 
identify defense critical assets (DCAs). 
Threat—An adversary having the intent, capability, and opportunity to cause loss or damage. 
Vulnerability—A weakness or susceptibility of an installation, system, asset, application, or its 
dependencies that could cause it to suffer a degradation or loss (incapacity to perform its 
designated function) as a result of having been subjected to a certain level of threat or hazard. 
 
