BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-43 
3 APRIL 2020 
Operations 
AIR ADVISING/ 
SECURITY FORCE ASSISTANCE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3TMQ 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-43, 16 May 2011 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lieutenant General Mark Kelly) 
Pages: 7 
 
 
This publication implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5000.68, Security Force 
Assistance, and DoDI 3000.11, Management of Department of Defense Irregular Warfare (IW) 
and Security Force Assistance (SFA) Capabilities, and is consistent with Department of Defense 
Directive (DoDD) 3000.07_AFPD 10-42  Irregular Warfare, and AFPD 16-1 Security 
Cooperation.  This directive establishes policy concerning the organizing, training, and equipping 
of Air Force personnel to ensure Air Advisor/SFA force development and functional management, 
and assigns roles and responsibilities impacting Air Advisor/SFA operations. This directive 
applies to all civilian and uniformed members of all components of the Department of the Air 
Force.  This directive also applies to Air Force contractors to the extent required by the applicable 
contract. Refer recommended changes about this publication to the office of primary responsibility 
(OPR) using the AF Forms 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 
from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records generated as a result 
of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records 
Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air 
Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information 
Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include rescinding the content of the previous AFPD 10-43, Stability Operations, and replacing it 
2 
AFPD10-43  3 APRIL 2020 
with policies, roles, and responsibilities for implementing Air Advising/Security Force Assistance 
cross-functional authority. 
 
 
AFPD10-43  3 APRIL 2020 
3 
1.  Background. 
1.1.  Given the complex demands of assisting foreign personnel to develop an aviation 
enterprise, Airmen who plan, lead, and conduct air advising operations shall be specifically 
organized, trained, and equipped to do so.  The role of an Air Advisor is to plan, execute, and 
evaluate operations that increase partner nation and coalition air power capabilities.  These 
actions are undertaken in support of the air component support plan and Combatant 
Commander campaign plan requirements, and to inform DoD decision making options. 
1.2.  Air Advisors.  Air Advisors are Airmen who are specifically trained to provide air-
minded subject matter expertise to execute air advising operations when tasked to do so 
through Air Force processes.  The Air Force specifically trains Air Advisors and develops 
scalable air advising capabilities within both conventional forces and Special Operations 
Forces.  Air Advisors plan, lead, and conduct operations and activities across the range of 
military operations including politically sensitive, hostile, and non-hostile environments. 
1.3.  Air Advising is the operational arm of Air Force Security Cooperation.  Along with 
a suite of other scalable and tailorable Air Force capabilities, air advising is part of unique air 
power SFA applications designed to develop, organize, train, equip, build, and advise/assist 
sustainable foreign security forces capacity and capability.  SFA is a subset of the Department 
of Defense’s overall Security Cooperation initiatives that involve developmental tasks (assess, 
train, advise, assist/accompany, and equip) to support partner nations in the development, 
sustainment, employment, and integration of aviation assets with organic surface forces, and 
forces of coalition partners when necessary. It does not include other Security Cooperation 
activities such as bilateral meetings and non-security sector civil affairs activities. 
2.  Policy.  To ensure air advising/SFA operations readiness for the purpose of supporting air 
component and Combatant Commander requirements, the Air Force will: 
2.1.  Ensure Air Advisors are organized, trained, and equipped to conduct Air Advising 
operations in permissive, politically sensitive, and contested environments. 
2.2.  Establish policy, guidance, and instruction for Air Advisor functional management, force 
development, operations, and training. 
2.3.  Ensure appropriate Air Force inspections, assessment, monitoring, and evaluations are 
conducted to ensure readiness, and compliance of Air Advisor/SFA operations with Air Force 
and joint standards. 
2.4.  Plan, program, budget for, and report Air Advisor/SFA capabilities and operations in 
concert with Air Force corporate planning processes. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) will: 
3.1.1.  Leads the development of strategy for Security Cooperation that guides USAF Air 
Advising/SFA force application. 
3.1.2.  In coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3), support DoD 
efforts to build the capacity and capability of ministries of defense. 
4 
AFPD10-43  3 APRIL 2020 
3.1.3.  As required, in coordination with AF/A3, ensure the capability and capacity of 
partner countries’ non-defense ministries are enhanced when supporting other United 
States government agencies. 
3.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall:  In coordination 
with the USD(AT&L), include approved geographic Combatant Commander-validated U.S. 
military Air Advising/SFA capability requirements into existing or potential acquisition 
programs. 
3.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will: 
3.3.1.  In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness 
(USD(P&R)), provide incentives to attract, develop, and retain personnel with critical 
language, regional and cultural skills. 
3.3.2.  Coordinate with Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) and Air Force Special 
Operations Command (AFSOC), as part of the irregular warfare (IW) annual assessment, 
and shall report the readiness of Air Force military and civilian personnel with Air 
Advising/Security Force Assistance-related skills, training, education, and experience to 
meet the requirements identified in DoD policy guidance and Combatant Commander 
theater strategies. 
3.3.3.  In coordination with SAF/MR, identify and track individuals who have completed 
Air Advising/SFA-related training, education, or experience in the Military Personnel Data 
System with a relevant skill-designator indicating Air Advising/SFA qualifications. 
3.3.4.  In coordination with Commander Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), ensure SCO 
personnel receive the appropriate training to meet geographic Combatant Commander-
validated skills requirements as outlined in: Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 
5132.13, Staffing of Security Cooperation Organizations (SCOs) and the Selection and 
Training of Security Cooperation Personnel; geographic Combatant Commander 
personnel requirements provided to AFPC; and as otherwise provided by Air Force 
guidance. 
3.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) will: 
3.4.1.  Serve as Air Force office of primary responsibility for policy and oversight to 
organize, train, and equip for Air Advising/Security Force Assistance. 
3.4.2.  In coordination with SAF/IA, support DoD efforts to build the capacity and 
capability of partner nation aviation-related defense institutions. 
3.4.3.  Through various approved security cooperation programs and in coordination with 
SAF/IA, assist partner nation defense and non-defense ministries to help them build their 
capability and capacity when supporting other US government agencies. 
3.4.4.  Serve as the Cross-Functional Authority (CFA) for the Air Advising/SFA 
enterprise. 
3.4.4.1.  The Air Advising/Security Force Assistance Enterprise CFA is responsible for 
strategic oversight, force development advocacy, functional management, integration 
and synchronization related to Air Advisor/Security Force Assistance organization, 
training, equipping, and utilization requirements. 
AFPD10-43  3 APRIL 2020 
5 
3.4.4.2.  The CFA will identify cross-functional billets for Air Force and Joint 
requirements, and associate the proficiency levels, training, and experience 
development needed to successfully conduct the Air Advising/SFA mission. 
3.4.5.  Develop and manage a prioritization process for Air Force requirements related to 
Air Advising/SFA. This process will include conventional force and SOF integration and 
synchronization. 
3.4.6.  Develop an internal Air Force sourcing mechanism to support resourcing of 
requirements that fall outside the Global Force Management process, but are required to 
support Air Advising/SFA.  This process will include sourcing for operations that support 
both Title 10, Title 22, and other authorized requirements. 
3.4.7.  Appoint a Program Element Monitor to manage Air Advising/SFA portfolio. 
3.4.8.  Ensure Air Force Forces planning personnel receive appropriate training to integrate 
Air Advising/SFA operations into campaign support plans, security cooperation 
engagement plans, and CCDR campaign plans. 
3.4.9.  Designate an A3 Air Advisor/SFA Cross Functional Manager. 
3.4.10.  Coordinate with Commander U.S. Air Force Expeditionary Center to ensure Air 
Advising/SFA specific content is incorporated into Air Force tactics, techniques, and 
procedures. 
3.4.11.  Coordinate with Commander Curtis E. Lemay Center for Doctrine Development 
and Education to ensure Air Advising/SFA specific content is incorporated into AF 
operational doctrine. 
3.4.12.  Work with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, United States Special 
Operations Command, and other personnel to develop and implement sourcing solutions 
for Air Advising/SFA requirements. 
3.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategy, Integration and Requirements (AF/A5) will:  In 
coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, support the identification of 
required Air Force capabilities across the air, space, and cyberspace domains including both 
standard and non-standard equipment required to conduct SFA-related activities. 
3.6.  Major Commands (MAJCOMs) Commanders will: 
3.6.1.  Develop Program Objective Memorandum recommendations, guidance, and 
procedures providing scalable total force capabilities to meet requirements of Air 
Advising/SFA activities in support of CCDR campaign plans, Air Component Support 
Plans, and security cooperation engagement plans. These forces need to be capable of 
executing all missions and activities required under politically sensitive, hostile, uncertain, 
and permissive environments. 
3.6.2.  In coordination with AF/A3, provide scalable capabilities to meet the requirements 
of all three conditions under which security force assistance activities are conducted as 
described in DODI 5000.68. 
 
 
6 
AFPD10-43  3 APRIL 2020 
3.6.3.  In addition to the responsibilities prescribed in paragraph 3.6.1, Commander, Air 
Mobility Command and Commander, Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) 
provide training to Air Advisors and Combat Aviation Advisors respectively, to support 
Air Advising/SFA operations in politically sensitive, hostile, uncertain, and permissive 
environments to conduct Air Advising/SFA-related activities. 
3.6.4.  In addition to the responsibilities prescribed in paragraph 3.6.1, Commander, Air 
Education and Training Command (AETC/CC) will, in coordination with AF/A3 and 
AF/A1, develop and provide Air Advising and Security Force Assistance education, 
training and development. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to, providing SFA 
pre-deployment training requirements and implementation oversight for Civilian 
Expeditionary Workforce (CEW) (now known as DoD Expeditionary Civilian (DoD-EC)) 
personnel mobilized to support SFA missions. 
3.7.  Component MAJCOM Commanders will; 
3.7.1.  Coordinate closely with their geographic combatant commanders to identify Air 
Force-related Air Advising/SFA requirements. 
3.7.1.1.  Ensure C-NAF Commanders work Air Advising/SFA-related budgeted 
requests through their respective MAJCOMs. 
3.7.1.2.  Ensure C-NAF Commanders include SFA-identified airpower-related planned 
activities in the Air Force Campaign Support Plan. 
3.7.2.  Provide inputs and recommendations to their geographic Combatant Commanders 
on the use of the Global Force Management Process to satisfy airpower-related Air 
Advising/SFA Request for Forces. 
 
BARBARA BARRETT 
Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD10-43  3 APRIL 2020 
7 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 3000.07_AFPD 10-42, Irregular Warfare, 18 October 2018 
DoDI 5000.68, Security Force Assistance, 27 October 2010 
DoDI 3000.11, Management of Department of Defense Irregular Warfare (IW) and Security 
Force Assistance (SFA) Capabilities, 3 May 2016 
AFPD 16-1, Security Cooperation, 12 November 2015 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
CCDR—Combatant Commander 
CEW—Civilian Expeditionary Workforce 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
CFA—Cross Functional Authority 
IW—Irregular Warfare 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
SFA—Security Force Assistance 
SOF—Special Operations Force 
 
