BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 38-4 
23 AUGUST 2018 
Manpower and Organization 
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT AND 
AIRMEN POWERED BY INNOVATION 
PROGRAM 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
OPR: SAF/MGM 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 38-4, 1 June 1998 
Certified by: SAF/MG 
(Mr. Richard W. Lombardi) 
Pages: 3 
This Air Force Policy Directive  implements Department of Defense Instruction 5010.43, Implementation 
and Management of the DoD-Wide Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/
LSS) Program; Department of Defense Directive 5010.42, DoD-Wide Continuous Process 
Improvement (CPI)/Lean Six Sigma (LSS) Program; Department of Defense Instruction 1400.25, 
DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Awards. This Directive was developed in collaboration 
with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF).  
The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, Management (SAF/MG) develops policy for 
Continuous Process Improvement policy and the Airmen Powered by Innovation program which 
apply to all Total Force Airmen (e.g. Regular, Reserve, and Guard Airmen and civilians). 
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility 
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field 
through appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of 
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, 
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information 
Management System Records Disposition Schedule. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
 
This Directive has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed. Major 
changes include a new publication title, formalization of the Air Force’s continuous 
improvement and innovation processes, and the deletion of sample metrics and terms. 
2 
AFPD38-4  23 AUGUST 2018 
1. Overview.  This Directive outlines the Air Force’s continuous process improvement and
Airmen Powered by Innovation program constructs and assigns responsibilities to support and
implement the same.
2. Policy.
2.1.  The Air Force will:
2.1.1.  Institutionalize continuous process improvement and innovation concepts and 
tools into the organizational culture to promote transparency and replication of successful 
continuous process improvement projects; 
2.1.2.  Implement a common set of continuous process improvement standards for 
training, and certification; 
2.1.3.  Establish a knowledge management and information sharing capability to foster 
continuous process improvement projects and replicate best practices. 
2.2.  The Air Force will establish Total Force program that connect Airmen to Senior Leaders 
and provide awards for approved ideas. 
3. Responsibilities.
3.1.  The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, Management and Deputy Chief
Management Officer (SAF/MG) provides oversight of Air Force policies and execution on
behalf of the Under Secretary and issues guidance and directions on all matters pertaining to
Continuous Process Improvement and the Airmen Powered by Innovation programs.
3.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will collaborate
with SAF/MG to maintain continuous improvement as an Air Force institutional competency.
3.2.1.  Include appropriate continuous improvement curricula in professional military 
education and leadership development opportunities. 
3.2.2.  Institute continuous improvement and innovation tools in a manner that promotes 
transparency and replication of successful process improvements across the Air Force. 
3.3.  All Headquarters Air Force senior leadership, major commands, field operating 
agencies, and direct reporting units will support SAF/MG by directing, implementing, and 
supporting this policy directive within their organization(s). 
3.4.  Commanders and civilian leader equivalents at all levels are responsible for ensuring: 
3.4.1.  Continuous process improvement tools and methodologies are used to eliminate 
wasteful, ineffective or unsafe business practices. 
3.4.2.  A culture of innovation is fostered within the unit to gain efficiencies and 
positively affect change. 
3.4.3.  Their organization’s managers, supervisors, and Airmen understand and utilize Air 
Force Continuous Process Improvement and the Airmen Powered by Innovation 
programs. 
HEATHER WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD38-4  23 AUGUST 2018 
3 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Department of Defense Directive 5010.42, DoD-Wide Continuous Process Improvement 
(CPI)/Lean Six Sigma (LSS) Program, 15 May 2008 
Department of Defense Instruction 5010.43, Implementation and Management of the DoD-Wide 
Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma (CPI/LSS) Program, 17 July 2009 
Department of Defense Instruction 1400.25 Vol 451, DoD Civilian Personnel Management 
System: Awards, 4 November 2013 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
