BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-4 
4 APRIL 2019 
Operations 
OPERATIONS PLANNING: AIR 
EXPEDITIONARY FORCE AND 
GLOBAL FORCE MANAGEMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the 
e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or 
ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OD 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-4, 30 April 2009 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark D. Kelly) 
Pages: 7 
 
 
This Air Force Policy Directive implements the Secretary of the Department of Defense Global 
Force Management Implementation Guidance, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Guide 3130, 
Adaptive Planning and Execution Overview and Policy Framework and Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff Manual 3130.06B, Global Force Management Allocation Policies and 
Procedures.  This publication applies to all civilian and Regular Air Force personnel, members 
of the Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard.  Refer recommended changes and conflicts 
between this and other publications to Headquarters Air Force War Planning and Policy, 1480 
Air Force Pentagon, Washington D.C. 20330-1480, on the Air Force Form 847, 
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field through 
the appropriate functional’s chain of command.  Ensure all records created as a result of 
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document is substantially revised and needs a complete review.  Major changes include 
clarifying Air Expeditionary Force Force Management policy as it aligns with the Joint Staff 
Global Force Management process, updating Air Expeditionary Force terminology to reflect 
current doctrine, and codifying roles and responsibilities. 
2 
AFPD10-4  4 APRIL 2019 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Codifies the Air Expeditionary Force construct in support of Global Force Management 
and provides senior decision making roles and responsibilities with respect to impact and risk 
of proposed assignment, allocation, and apportionment decisions. 
1.2.  Presents comprehensive insight into Air Expeditionary Force Advisory Structure. 
2.  Policy.   
2.1.  Provide organized, trained, and equipped forces in accordance with Title 10 United 
States Code (U.S.C.) § 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, to the Combatant Commands, 10 
U.S.C. § 162, Combatant Commands: assigned forces; chain of command. 
2.2.  Establish directive guidance defining the Air Expeditionary Force and its role 
supporting Global Force Management and Combatant Commander requirements, across the 
three components:  Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard. 
2.3.  Present forces to the Joint Force Commander, as an Air Expeditionary Task Force, that 
are task organized at time of execution, able to respond to emerging crises, and ready to 
sustain rotational requirements while retaining a surge capability. 
2.3.1.  Use a combination of assigned and allocated forces to enhance combat capability 
and provide a standardized battle rhythm. 
2.3.2.  Develop a force management construct optimizing how capabilities are provided 
to Combatant Commanders for employment.  The construct includes primary 
employment structure as well as planned periods of employment and recovery. 
2.4.  Develop recommended global sourcing solutions for conventional forces independent of 
force assignment in accordance with the Global Force Management Implementation 
Guidance. 
2.5.  Align force assignment, allocation, and apportionment methodologies in support of 
strategic guidance documents, joint force availability requirements, and joint force 
assessments. 
2.6.  Task individuals throughout the Air Force, to include Airmen assigned to Combatant 
Commands, to source Secretary of the Department of Defense directed taskings in another 
Combatant Command as codified in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 3130.06B. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR).  
Provides mobilization recommendations to Secretary of the Air Force and the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense Reserve Affairs in coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Operations. 
3.2.  Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF).  Coordinates with the Joint Staff and Combatant 
Commanders to provide ready capabilities, via the Air Expeditionary Force construct, as 
directed by Global Force Management policies and procedures. 
 
 
AFPD10-4  4 APRIL 2019 
3 
3.2.1.  Informs Active and Reserve Components, via the Air Expeditionary Force 
schedule, of eligibility periods required to support Secretary of the Department of 
Defense taskings and emerging contingencies; enhances ability to maintain readiness and 
deploy during scheduled Air Expeditionary Force periods. 
3.2.2.  Delegates to Headquarters Air Force Director of Staff (HAF/DS) the responsibility 
to lead the Air Expeditionary Force Forum. 
3.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1).  Integrates 
personnel policies into guidance supporting Air Expeditionary Force manpower requirements 
and organizational structures. 
3.3.1.  Executes sourcing and scheduling policy to ensure visibility and accountability 
over deployed forces and aid readiness assessment. 
3.3.2.  Integrates and executes personnel operations and Airmen development within the 
Air Expeditionary Force battle rhythm to facilitate deployments during scheduled Air 
Expeditionary Force eligibility periods. 
3.3.3.  Provides sourcing recommendations for conventional forces not specifically 
identified to other sourcing organizations; includes Joint Individual Augmentee and 
Department of Defense Expeditionary Civilian Workforce requirements. 
3.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3).  Pursuant to Secretary of the Department 
of Defense Global Force Management Implementation Guidance, organizes and assists the 
Secretary of the Air Force in providing  Air Force forces to meet Combatant Commander 
requirements via the Air Expeditionary Force. 
3.4.1.  Serves as primary advisor to Chief of Staff of the Air Force on the Air 
Expeditionary Force and is the primary Air Force point of contact for Air Expeditionary 
Force and Global Force Management policy and guidance. 
3.4.2.  Executes Prepare-to-Deploy Order activations, alert level changes, and 
deployment notifications affecting Air Force Service-retained conventional forces with 
the Secretary of the Air Force as the Force Provider. 
3.4.3.  Initiates Air Force Reserve Component activation notification in support of 
approved operations. 
3.4.4.  Provides assessments of the Air Force’s ability to support Combatant Commander 
requirements. 
3.4.5.  Provides conventional force sourcing recommendations, independent of 
assignment, in support of Combatant Commander Theater Campaign Plans, Operation 
Plans, and Concept Plans. 
3.4.6.  Collaborates sourcing recommendations with AF/A1 for conventional forces not 
specifically identified to other sourcing organizations. 
3.4.7.  Analyzes and provides Service sourcing recommendations in support of 
Combatant Commander capability requests.  AF/A3 may delegate this authority to 
supporting commands; however, AF/A3 is final approval authority for official Air Force 
responses to the Joint Staff. 
4 
AFPD10-4  4 APRIL 2019 
3.4.8.  Establishes and maintains the Air Expeditionary Force construct; the methodology 
the Air Force uses to provide organized, trained, and equipped forces in support of global 
force management. 
3.4.9.  Chairs the Air Expeditionary Force Review Board and in this capacity is the 
primary advisor to HAF/DS for bringing issues to the Air Expeditionary Force Forum. 
3.4.10.  Focuses on operational implications, recommends improvements, and provides 
assistance to scheduling organizations to include resolving management of constrained 
resources, scheduling conflicts, and policy discrepancies of the Air Expeditionary Force. 
3.4.11.  Delegates responsibility for day-to-day management and implementation of Air 
Expeditionary Force training requirements as the Expeditionary Readiness Senior 
Authority. 
3.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering, and Force Protection (AF/A4).  Serves 
as the primary Air Force point of contact for combat support planning and sustainability 
analysis supporting the Air Expeditionary Force. 
3.5.1.  Coordinates with combatant commands and subcomponents regarding overseas 
contingency basing and related capabilities in support of the Air Expeditionary Force. 
3.5.2.  Develops Air Force policy and guidance related to deployment planning and 
execution, base support planning, and expeditionary site surveys supporting the Air 
Expeditionary Force. 
3.6.  Air Force Force Coordinators.  Function as the air component to Combatant 
Commanders designated as Joint Force Providers (for example:  Air Mobility Command 
supports United States Transportation Command in its role as Mobility Joint Force Provider; 
24th Air Force (Air Forces Cyber-AFCYBER) supports United States Cyber Command in its 
role as Cyber Joint Forces Provider, Air Force Special Operations Command supports United 
States Special Operations Command in its role as Special Operations Joint Force Provider; 
and Commander, Air Combat Command, is the Secretary of the Air Force delegated Air 
Force Force Coordinator for conventional forces). 
3.6.1.  Coordinate and prepare rotational force schedules; recommend sourcing solutions 
for enduring and emergent Combatant Commander requirements. 
3.6.2.  Make global allocation nominations for Air Force forces, including assigned and 
unassigned forces, in response to validated Combatant Commander requirements. 
3.6.3.  Report readiness and availability data of Air Force forces to designated Joint Force 
Providers. 
3.6.4.  Inform Headquarters Air Force Director of Current Operations on Service 
Component Command decision for all Joint Staff sourcing actions. 
3.6.5.  Provide military risk assessments to Headquarters Air Force as requested. 
3.6.6.  Publish the Deployment Order for Air Force forces upon Secretary of the 
Department of Defense approval of the Global Force Management Allocation Plan 
Annex and subsequent modifications. 
AFPD10-4  4 APRIL 2019 
5 
3.6.6.1.  Provide Service verification of deployment requirements utilizing service 
war planning system Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments and 
Joint Staff system of record Joint Operations Planning and Execution System as the 
Supporting Combatant Commander for Service-retained conventional forces. 
3.6.6.2.  Provide feasibility of Air Force sourcing solutions for conventional forces, to 
conduct plan assessments and to contingency source Air Force conventional forces, 
assigned and unassigned, in support of Combatant Commander’s theater campaign, 
operations, and concept plans. 
3.7.  Component Major Commands and Component Numbered Air Forces.  Identified as the 
key link between the Air Force and the Combatant Commander, they advise their assigned 
Combatant Commander on the Air Expeditionary Force as well as coordinate Combatant 
Commander requirements to the Air Force. 
3.7.1.  Designated as a Service component to a Combatant Command, via Global Force 
Management Implementation Guidance, they support their Combatant Commander in 
fulfilling responsibilities outlined in the Unified Command Plan as well as perform 
functions identified in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 3130.06 Series. 
3.7.2.  Communicate sourcing nominations of assigned forces to their Combatant 
Commander. 
3.7.3.  Determine Expeditionary Readiness Training requirements for personnel expected 
to deploy to the theater.  Air Force component's new or revised Country Specific or Area 
of Responsibility specific training is coordinated with the Expeditionary Readiness 
Council. 
3.7.4.  Exercise training and readiness oversight of Air Force Reserve Units and Air 
National Guard units when not on active duty. 
3.8.  Major Commands, Direct Reporting Units, Field Operating Agencies, and Air Force 
Elements are service force providing organizations that, via subordinate commanders: 
3.8.1.  Ensure forces are trained and equipped to support the Air Expeditionary Force 
construct. 
3.8.2.  Report readiness status of forces utilizing mandated systems of record. 
3.8.3.  As designated by the Secretary of the Air Force, delegated authority to execute 
training and readiness oversight of any gained Air National Guard units not assigned to a 
Combatant Commander. 
3.8.4.  Ensure Airmen meet theater Expeditionary Readiness Training requirements, as 
defined in theater reporting instructions for their applicable category. 
3.8.5.  Designate an office of primary responsibility for Air Expeditionary Force and 
Global Force Management matters to include membership in Air Expeditionary Force 
Review Board, Air Expeditionary Force Steering Group, and applicable Scheduling 
Integrated Product Teams. 
3.9.  Air Expeditionary Force Advisory Structure. Senior leader venue that facilitates 
discussion and resolves strategic Air Expeditionary Force issues. 
6 
AFPD10-4  4 APRIL 2019 
3.9.1.  Air Expeditionary Force Forum.  Chaired by HAF/DS, this forum is a meeting of 
Major Command Deputy Commanders or equivalents (to include Air National Guard and 
Air Force District of Washington), Headquarters Air Force Deputy Chiefs of Staff or 
equivalents, and invited guests.  The Forum provides a strategic forum to evaluate new 
ideas and concepts and resolve force management and generation issues inhibiting force 
execution. 
3.9.2.  Air Expeditionary Force Review Board.  Chaired by AF/A3, the review board is a 
meeting between A3s or designee from force providing organizations and air component 
headquarters, plus invited Headquarters Air Force functional directors.  The review board 
resolves execution issues and recommends policy.  Steering Group Co-chairs plus Chairs 
of the Scheduling Integrated Product Teams are the principal advisors to the Air 
Expeditionary Force Review Board. 
3.9.3.  Air Expeditionary Force Steering Group.  Co-chaired by HAF/A3 and 
Commander, Air Force Personnel Center, the steering group consists of colonels or 
civilian equivalents appointed by each Major Command, the Air National Guard, Air 
Force District of Washington, and Headquarters Air Force staff.   The steering group 
provides a platform for reviewing and recommending policy, introducing and evaluating 
new ideas and concepts, and resolving force management or generation issues inhibiting 
Air Expeditionary Force execution. 
3.9.4.  Scheduling Integrated Product Teams.  Multi-command organizations comprised 
of colonels or civilian equivalents empowered to commit resources and make scheduling 
decisions on behalf of their respective organization for developing their respective 
portion of the Air Expeditionary Force schedule to support global force management and 
adaptive planning and execution processes and timelines as required in Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 3130.06. 
 
HEATHER ANN WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD10-4  4 APRIL 2019 
7 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Guide 3130, Adaptive Planning and Execution Overview 
and Policy Framework, 29 May 2015 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 3130.06B, Global Force Management Allocation 
Policies and Procedures, 12 October 2016 
Secretary of Defense Global Force Management Implementation Guidance, 28 January 2016 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 
Title 10 United States Code § 8013, Secretary of the Air Force 
Title 10 United States Code § 162, Combatant Commands assigned forces; chain of command 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Terms 
None 
 
