BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-3 
29 NOVEMBER 2017 
Operations 
OPERATIONAL UTILIZATION OF THE 
AIR RESERVE COMPONENT FORCES 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: HQ USAF/A3H 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-3, 17 May 2006 
Certified by: HQ USAF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark C. Nowland) 
Pages: 10 
 
 
This directive implements policy regarding the operational utilization of the Air Reserve 
Components, which are comprised of the Air Force Reserve and the Air National Guard.  This 
publication is consistent with: Title 10 United States Code, Chapters 1003, 1005, 1007, 12301, 
12302, 12304, and 1211; Title 32 United States Code; Department of Defense Directive 1200.17, 
Managing the Reserve Components as an Operational Force, and Department of Defense 
Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Components. This directive applies to the Total 
Force, which includes all Air Force military personnel, in the Regular Air Force and in the Air 
Reserve Components, as well as Air Force civilian personnel. 
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are 
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed 
of in accordance with Records Disposition Schedule in the Air Force Records Information 
Management System.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this directive to the 
Office of Primary Responsibility using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route Air Force Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain 
of command. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This directive has been significantly revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. 
 
2 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
1.  Overview.  The Air Reserve Components provide operational capabilities while maintaining 
readiness to ensure sufficient strategic depth to meet United States military requirements across 
the range of military operations.  Managing the Air Reserve Components as an operational force 
is a necessity in an era of persistent conflict and global engagement. Air Reserve Components 
operational utilization data collection directly supports planning and decision-making at all 
levels. The ability to analyze this data enables optimal and sustainable use of all Air Force 
component’s resources and personnel. 
1.1.  Definition of Air Reserve Component operational utilization.  Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization includes any authorized use of the Air Reserve Component allowed by 
statute, regulation and policy, including operational missions assigned in whole or part to the 
Air Reserve Component.  It includes the use of the Air Reserve Component to carry out 
strategic, operational, tactical, service, training or administrative missions, even when such 
use is incidental to Air Reserve Component training.  Except when such support is provided 
while in a State Active Duty (or Militia) status, Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization encompasses support provided to federal agencies and to state, local and foreign 
governments, including:  Defense Support of Civil Authorities under the national response 
framework; military training support provided to foreign nations pursuant to Title 22 United 
States Code; support provided to the State Partnership Program administered by the National 
Guard Bureau; and support provided in response to United States Government Interagency 
requests. 
1.2.  Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements shall be categorized in an 
operationally-oriented requirements framework and then prioritized, in order to inform the 
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution process and resourcing decisions.  The 
five categories are: 
1.2.1.  Combatant Commander Operations:  Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization to meet Combatant Commander operational requirements documented in the 
Global Force Management Allocation Plan or other Combatant Commander assigned 
force demand (e.g., United States Transportation Command day-to-day taskings to Air 
Forces Transportation), including Combatant Commander requirements for deployed and 
assigned forces (“employ-in-place requirements”). 
1.2.2.  Combatant Commander Directed Training:  Air Reserve Component utilization for 
Combatant Commander sponsored exercises. 
1.2.3.  United States Air Force Service Operations:  Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization for Air Force operational support requirements that are not specifically 
covered in Global Force Management Allocation Plan. 
1.2.4.  United States Air Force Service Training:  Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization for support of Air Force service-directed exercises and war games. 
1.2.5.  Outside Agency Generated Requirements:  Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization for requirements generated outside of the Air Force to include reimbursable 
missions performed by the Air Reserve Component, including support to other military 
branches and to other Department of Defense and non-Department of Defense agencies. 
 
 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
3 
2.  Policy.  All components of the Air Force will: 
2.1.  Balance Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements with the need to 
maintain depth of Air Reserve Component strategic force employment requirements to 
support National Military Strategy across the full range of military operations. 
2.2.  Ensure all three component stakeholders have capability and information to accurately 
assess supply and demand of Air Reserve Component forces in each career field, functional 
area, and theater within a specified timeframe to inform requests for Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization. 
2.2.1.  Efficiently submit, monitor and manage Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization requirements. 
2.2.2.  Monitor the mission and resource validation and funding status of all submitted 
Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements. 
2.2.3.  Locate and use standard cost planning tools to calculate the Military Personnel 
Appropriation days and the necessary Operations & Maintenance costs for each Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization requirement (reference Air Force Instruction 
65-503). 
2.3.  Ensure that Regular Air Force and Air Reserve Component plans, programs, budgets 
and Total Force association agreements collectively document all projected Air Reserve 
Component operational utilization. 
2.3.1.  All three components will agree on the Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization demand before submitting target resource levels to the Planning, 
Programming, Budgeting and Execution process. 
2.3.2.  The Air Reserve Component organizations will ensure the operational utilization 
requirement can be met with projected Air Reserve Component forces without undue 
risks to strategic reserve commitments. 
2.4.  Ensure that Air Reserve Component operational utilization is considered across the full 
spectrum of missions at home and abroad in providing operational capabilities according to 
National Defense Strategy, Defense Planning Guidance, Air Force management plans, and 
operational requirements. 
2.4.1.  To the extent practicable, ensure unit integrity is maintained, to include unit 
leadership positions when Air Reserve Component units are utilized to fulfill operational 
requirements. 
2.4.2.  Prepare Air Reserve Component units and personnel to meet enduring, rotational, 
pre-planned and emergent requirements. 
2.4.3.  Ensure the Total Force and non-federalized National Guard forces, through 
coordination with the National Guard Bureau, have capabilities useful for domestic 
disaster response and are utilized in accordance with applicable Federal and State rules. 
2.5.  Leadership will ensure that Air Reserve Component forces meet operational readiness 
requirements identified by the President, the Secretary of Defense, and the respective 
Adjutant Generals. 
4 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
2.5.1.  Seek training opportunities for the Air Reserve Component that may complement 
operational missions thereby benefitting both the Air Reserve Component and the 
Regular Air Force. 
2.6.  Ensure projected Air Reserve Component operational utilization is considered when 
performing the Office of the Secretary of Defense mandated periodic rebalancing of Regular 
Air Force and Air Reserve Component force structure and individual skill inventories to meet 
full spectrum operations while moderating excessive utilization of any part of the Total 
Force.  Such rebalancing shall result in a force mix that considers projected supply and 
demand of Air Reserve Component forces for operational utilization above strategic reserve 
requirements. 
2.6.1.  To the extent practicable, align force structure and ensure sufficient depth of Air 
Reserve Component unit and individual capabilities to meet established Department of 
Defense force utilization goals for frequency and duration of units and individuals. 
2.6.2.  Integrate Regular Air Force and Air Reserve Component missions and personnel 
to the greatest extent practicable and permissible by law, including the use of cross-
component assignments, both Regular Air Force to Air Reserve Component and Air 
Reserve Component to Regular Air Force. 
2.6.3.  Develop continuum of service constructs that facilitate and sustain the all-
volunteer force and the willingness of individuals to serve. 
2.7.  Ensure Air Reserve Component forces are considered as the Air Force identifies units 
and individuals to align with mission requirements generated by Combatant Commanders, 
including emergent requests for forces. 
2.8.  Develop and sustain a three-component community of interest to coordinate plans and 
efforts of information technology data systems owners that support any portion of the Air 
Reserve Component utilization cycle or Air Reserve Component operational utilization 
analytics.  The community of interest will facilitate the development of data architectures, 
information exchange standards and data sharing agreements that facilitate the integration 
and exchange of data between all information systems that support the Air Reserve 
Component utilization cycle. 
2.9.  Collaborate regularly to accomplish the duties and responsibilities delineated in this 
directive. 
3.  Concurrent Fielding of Equipment.  All three components will plan and implement 
concurrent and proportional fielding, modernization, recapitalization, and retirement of 
equipment, technology and legacy platforms among components.  Effective implementation 
requires concurrent fielding, not recapitalization by cascading older equipment to the Air 
Reserve Component.  Compliance with Department of Defense Instruction 1225.06, Equipping 
the Reserve Forces, will aid in preparation for future conflicts with more advanced adversaries. 
4.  The Air Reserve Component Utilization Cycle.  The Air Reserve Component Utilization 
Cycle is the six-step process model for managing Air Reserve Component operational utilization.  
In order to optimally leverage Air Reserve Component operational capabilities, Air Force 
stakeholders should have a shared common understanding of, and adhere to, the Air Reserve 
Component Utilization Cycle (Figure 1).  During this cycle, information flows back and forth 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
5 
between the Headquarters Air Force, Major Commands, Component staffs, and other 
stakeholders that require Air Reserve Component support.  The six-step processes, depicted in 
Figure 1 and described below, represent the sequence of events for operational utilization of the 
Air Reserve Component. 
Figure 1.  The Air Reserve Component (ARC) Utilization Cycle. 
 
4.1.  Requirements.  Identify full mission requirement for Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization by collecting, tracking, organizing relevant data and prioritizing 
requirements. 
4.2.  Resourcing.  Allocate funding resources for Military Personnel Appropriations days and 
the associated Operations and Maintenance costs. These costs encompass Reserve, Guard, 
and Regular Air Force appropriations and reimbursable costs to help identify, categorize, and 
prioritize mission requirements. 
4.3.  Sourcing.  Match validated and funded mission requirements with Air Force Reserve 
Command/Air National Guard units and/or personnel to meet the requirements. 
4.4.  Executing.  Initiate actions for obtaining orders to transition Air Reserve Command 
members to a military status, transport Air Reserve Component members to duty locations, 
execute Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements, and finalize required 
documentation to complete the orders. 
4.5.  Assessing.  Use data from multiple sources to evaluate the efficacy of each Air Reserve 
Component Utilization Cycle steps and assess trends in operational utilization of the Air 
Reserve Component. 
4.6.  Forecasting.  Identify future operational requirements, changes in policy and public law, 
and any other factors that may affect the projected operational utilization of the Air Reserve 
Component.  Utilize the forecasts to improve planning, programming, budgeting, force 
structure, policies and other force shaping influences to Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization. 
 
 
6 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
5.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
5.1.  Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organizations: 
5.1.1.  Where appropriate, integrate Air Reserve Component capabilities to meet current 
operational requirements while preserving and retaining the strategic depth of the Air 
Reserve Component. 
5.1.2.  Periodically provide the Headquarters Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Operations a categorized and prioritized list of projected Air Reserve Component 
operational utilization requirements. 
5.1.3.  Identify enduring Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements and 
projections, which are those missions reasonably expected to be performed in whole or in 
part by the Air Reserve Component through the Future Year Defense Plan and beyond, 
then submit requirements to the Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Operations. 
5.1.4.  Ensure that the annual Air Reserve Component Utilization Projection, setting forth 
how the Air Reserve Component will be utilized to meet Total Force requirements and be 
accounted for in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution process, is 
aligned with command priorities and resource-informed. 
5.2.  Air Force Reserve Command: 
5.2.1.  Recruit, train and provide combat-ready units and qualified personnel to deliver 
mission capabilities to meet national military strategy and ongoing Air Force operational 
utilization requirements. 
5.2.2.  Manage the requirements, resourcing, sourcing and execution of enduring 
missions that have been assigned in whole or part to Air Force Reserve Command (e.g., 
weather, reconnaissance). 
5.2.3.  Review and assess Air Force Reserve Command’s capability to support identified 
mission requirements and source Reserve units and personnel to meet projected 
requirements. 
5.2.4.  Review and monitor the training, readiness and safety of Air Force Reserve units 
and personnel. 
5.2.5.  Provide data and analysis as required to the Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief 
of Staff for Operations, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs and other stakeholders to collaboratively assess trends in force employment and 
operational utilization of Reserve personnel. 
5.3.  Air National Guard Readiness Center: 
5.3.1.  Recruit, train and provide combat-ready units and qualified personnel to deliver 
mission capabilities to meet National Military Strategy and ongoing Air Force 
operational utilization requirements. 
 
 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
7 
5.3.2.  Manage the requirements, resourcing, sourcing and execution of enduring 
operations or missions (e.g., Aerospace Control Alert) that are undertaken by the Air 
National Guard in accordance with 32 United States Code 502(f)(2)(A). Such operations 
or missions must be at the request of the President or Secretary of Defense. 
5.3.3.  Review and assess Air National Guard capability to support identified mission 
requirements and source Air National Guard units and personnel to meet projected 
requirements. 
5.3.4.  Review and monitor the training, readiness and safety of Air National Guard units 
and personnel.  Gaining Major Commands share this responsibility. 
5.3.5.  Provide data and analysis as required to the Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief 
of Staff for Operations, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs and other stakeholders to collaboratively assess trends in force employment and 
operational utilization of Guard personnel. 
5.4.  Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations: 
5.4.1.  Manage Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements by collecting 
data and categorizing and prioritizing those requirements with cross-functional 
coordination at all levels.  Serve as the point of contact for all non-AF organizations 
requiring Air Reserve Component support. 
5.4.2.  Assess Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements against 
commanders’ mission priorities. 
5.4.3.  Compile Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements to be 
included in the annual Air Reserve Component Utilization Plan.  Use the Air Reserve 
Component Utilization Plan, and reports derived from it, to inform leadership, resource 
managers and other stakeholders during the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and 
Execution process. 
5.4.4.  Stand up and sustain in Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Operations an Air Reserve Component Requirements Cell to facilitate improved 
processes, policies, information systems, and infrastructure, to compile data, and to 
perform analytics that support improved utilization and visibility of the Air Reserve 
Component. 
5.4.5.  Develop, communicate and apply a standardized weighting methodology to 
prioritize Air Reserve Component operational utilization requirements. 
5.4.5.1.  Provide the prioritized list of Air Reserve Component operational utilization 
requirements to the Air Force Corporate Process and all affected appropriation 
managers to inform execution year plans, the President’s Budget, the Program 
Objective Memorandum, and Planning Choices. 
5.4.6.  The Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations will be the 
original classification authority for compilations of Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization data. 
 
 
8 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
5.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services: 
5.5.1.  Collaborate with Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs, Headquarters Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Air Force Reserve 
Command, Air National Guard and other stakeholders to share the data and analysis 
required to monitor trends in overall employment of the Total Force. 
5.6.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs: 
5.6.1.  Monitor trends in overall employment of the Air Reserve Component using 
appropriate data from all components. 
5.6.2.  Monitor trends in operational utilization of the Total Force using appropriate data 
from all components. 
6.  Command jurisdiction for non-mobilized Air National Guard units.  Command 
jurisdiction for non-mobilized Air National Guard units is vested in the governor of the state, 
commonwealth, or territory, or in the case of the District of Columbia, the President of the 
United States.  Communications to, and within, the National Guard Bureau on matters pertaining 
to Air National Guard units will be coordinated through the Air National Guard Readiness 
Center.  Operational control of non-mobilized Air National Guard unit forces operating in Title 
10 United States Code status is vested in the Combatant Commander of assignment, unless 
otherwise directed by Secretary of Defense. 
7.  Applicability of Air Force guidance to the Air Reserve Component.  In some cases, Air 
Force policy directives and instructions will not be applicable to Air Reserve Component units in 
non-activated status.  Applicability of such guidance to the Air Reserve Component is 
determined by the approving authority of the respective policy and in conjunction with the 
Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) and the Office of the Chief of the Air Force 
Reserve (AF/RE). 
 
HEATHER WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
9 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Title 10 United States Code, Chapters 1003, 1005, 1007, 12301, 12302, 12304, and 1211 
Title 32 United States Code 
Department of Defense Directive 1200.17, Managing the Reserve Component as an Operational 
Force, 29 October 2008 
Department of Defense Instruction 1235.12, Accessing the Reserve Component, 7 June 2016 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008 (incorporating Change 2, 9 
June 16) 
Air Force Instruction 65-503, United States Air Force Cost and Planning Factors (Incorporating 
Change 1, 23 February 2017) 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 21 July 2016 
Title 22 United States Code 
Department of Defense Instruction 1225.06, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 16 May 2012 
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 
November 2010 
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, 17 January 2017 
Terms 
Air Reserve Component operational utilization— Any authorized use of the Air Reserve 
Component allowed by statute, regulation and policy, including operational missions assigned in 
whole or part to the Air Reserve Component.  It includes the use of the Air Reserve Component 
to carry out strategic, operational, tactical, service, training or administrative missions, even 
when such use is incidental to Air Reserve Component training.  Except when such support is 
provided while in a State Active Duty (or Militia) status, Air Reserve Component operational 
utilization encompasses  support provided to federal agencies and to state, local and foreign 
governments, including:  Defense Support of Civil Authorities under the national response 
framework; military training support provided to foreign nations pursuant to Title 22 United 
States Code; support provided to the State Partnership Program administered by the National 
Guard Bureau; and support provided in response to United States Government Interagency 
requests. 
Air Reserve Component utilization cycle— The continuous loop, six-step Air Force process 
model for managing Air Reserve Component operational utilization. The steps are: requirements, 
resourcing, sourcing, execution, analysis and forecasting.  The process is supported by a core of 
information that is shared by stakeholders supporting the six steps. 
Air Reserve Component Utilizing Organization—Any organization that engages in Air 
Reserve Component operational utilization, as defined in this directive. 
10 
AFPD10-3  29 NOVEMBER 2017 
Air Reserve Component Utilization Projection— Report compiled annually to address how 
the Air Reserve Component will be utilized to meet total force requirements and be accounted 
for in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution process. 
Command— The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over 
subordinates by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility 
for effectively using available resources and for planning the employment of, organizing, 
directing, coordinating, and controlling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned 
missions. It also includes responsibility for health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned 
personnel. [Joint Publication 1-02] 
Combatant Commander— A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant 
commands established by the President. [Joint Publication 1-02] 
Mission— The act of accomplishing a task or objective pertaining to any of the following:  1) a 
Title 10 Air Force service mission responsibility; 2) Secretary of Defense directed Air Force 
support to a Combatant Commander; 3) Combatant Commander, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Air Force Component-Major Command, Air Force Component-Numbered Air Force, 
Execution order; or 4) as stated in the Air Force, Major Command or unit mission directive. 
Mobilization— The process by which the Armed Forces or part of them are brought to a state of 
readiness for war or other national emergency. This includes activating all or part of the Air 
Reserve Component, as well as assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel. 
[Joint Publication 1-02] 
Operations—Military actions or the carrying out of strategic, operational, tactical, service, 
training or administrative military missions.  [Joint Publication 3-0] 
Regular Air Force— The component of the Air Force that consists of persons whose continuous 
service on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired members of 
the Regular Air Force. [10 United States Code §8075] 
 
