BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-7 
22 JUNE 2021 
Operations 
INFORMATION OPERATIONS (IO) 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3CX 
 
Supersedes:  AFPD10-7, 4 August 2014;  
                     Air Force IO Program 
                     Management Memorandum,  
                     16 June 2016 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Joseph T. Guastella, Jr.) and 
SF/COO (Lt Gen Bradley Saltzman) 
Pages: 12 
 
 
This publication implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3600.01, Information 
Operations; DoDD 3700.01, DoD Command and Control (C2) Enabling Capabilities; DoDD 
5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and its Major Components; DoDD 5205.02E, 
Department of Defense Operations Security Program; Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 
S-3604.01, Department of Defense Deception Activities; DoDI O-3607.02, Military Information 
Support Operations; DoDI 3608.11, Information Operations Career Force; DoDI 3608.12, Joint 
Information Operations (IO) Education and DoDI 8560.01, Communications Security (COMSEC) 
Monitoring.  This Department of the Air Force Policy Directive provides a means by which the 
United States Air Force (USAF) and United States Space Force (USSF) will utilize Information 
Operations to enhance resiliency, responsiveness and agility of operations. In addition, it will 
enable support to and achievement of Department of Defense (DoD), Combatant Commander’s 
and other Commander’s objectives and effects.  This publication applies to civilian employees of 
the Department of the Air Force (DAF) and uniformed members of the United States Space Force, 
Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, and contractor personnel except 
where noted otherwise.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the 
office of primary responsibility using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of 
command. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
2 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which 
is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include assigning lead command responsibilities to Air Combat Command (ACC) and Space 
Operations Command (SpOC), and incorporating the information joint function and the 
Department of Defense (DoD) Strategy for Operations in the Information Environment. 
 
1. 
Overview. .................................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
Policy. ......................................................................................................................  
3 
3. 
Responsibilities. .......................................................................................................  
3 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
9 
 
 
 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
3 
1.  Overview.  This directive establishes DAF policy for Information Operations (IO), to include 
Deception Activities, Military Information Support Operations (MISO), Operations Security 
(OPSEC) governance and management. This directive also establishes policy for Communication 
Security (COMSEC) monitoring governance and management. From hence forth, use of the term 
‘Information Operations’ includes Deception Activities, MISO, and OPSEC governance and 
management capabilities.  In addition, this directive designates USAF and USSF Major Command 
and Field Command roles and responsibilities for these capabilities in support of objectives and 
effects.  The management, planning and execution of IO is an operations function.  IO and 
aforementioned included capabilities will reside together in the operations and/or plans element of 
an organization.  For those organizations with no traditional operations or plans element, the 
commander or director shall determine the most logical element to place IO activities.  COMSEC 
monitoring will be conducted only by organizations authorized to execute COMSEC monitoring 
missions. 
2.  Policy.  The DAF will:  
2.1.  Integrate IO concepts into military strategy, plans, operations, exercises, functional and 
professional military training, communications architectures, information processing, systems 
development, and professional education. 
2.2.  Develop concepts, policies and procedures that enable friendly forces to leverage 
information to achieve desired objectives and effects across the range of military operations 
and throughout the competition continuum. 
2.3.  Organize, train, and equip forces to provide operationally proficient specialists in IO.  
Planners will support combatant and component commanders to gain and maintain an 
information advantage and achieve the commander’s desired operational objectives and 
effects. 
2.4.  Only conduct information operations within the appropriate approval authority. 
3.  Responsibilities.  This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities: 
3.1.  Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA).  Will 
coordinate with Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) and the Deputy Chief of Space 
Operations for Operations (known as the Chief Operations Officer (SF/COO)) on all IO policy. 
3.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisitions, Technology and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ) will:. 
3.2.1.  Serve as the office of primary responsibility for the Science & Technology and 
Research, Development, Testing & Evaluation aspects of IO acquisition activities.  Provide 
direction, guidance and supervision over all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, 
approval and execution of relative plans, policies, and programs. 
3.2.2.  Participate in the DAF IO governance structure. 
3.2.3.  Advocate for IO capabilities acquisition in accordance with the DAF Corporate 
Structure process. 
3.2.4.  Manage funds allocated for acquisition programs within the Research, 
Development, Testing & Evaluation appropriation. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
3.3.  Deputy Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN) will:. 
3.3.1.  Ensure networks that operate as part of the Department of Defense (DoD) 
Information Network are architected or acquired to enable the continuous monitoring, 
collection, and analysis of information that resides on and traverses DoD electronic 
communications systems. 
3.3.2.  Participate in the DAF IO governance structure. 
3.4.  Department of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC).  Will, in coordination with 
DAF/JA, serve as legal counsel for matters pertaining to DAF COMSEC monitoring and notice 
consent activities. 
3.5.  The Judge Advocate General (DAF/JA).  Will advise Secretarial, Air, and Space Staff 
on IO, in coordination with SAF/GC when appropriate. DAF/JA provides functional oversight 
to legal offices responsible for advising USAF and USSF components on IO. 
3.6.  Director of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will:. 
3.6.1.  Participate in the DAF IO governance structure. 
3.6.2.  Ensure Public Affairs professionals are able to integrate Public Affairs core 
competencies, capabilities, activities and missions, such as counterpropaganda, into 
strategy development, operational planning and execution. 
3.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) will:. 
3.7.1.  Coordinate with AF/A3 and the IO career field manager on the development of team 
guidance. 
3.7.2.  Monitor accession, training, education and career development for the IO career 
force. 
3.7.3.  Participate in the DAF IO governance structure. 
3.8.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6) and Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Technology and 
Innovation, (known as the Chief Technology and Innovation Officer (SF/CTIO)) will:. 
3.8.1.  Integrate and synchronize IO into the full range of Information Warfare policy, 
oversight, and guidance (AF/A2/6 only). 
3.8.2.  Provide policy and guidance to support the DAF’s capability to detect and mitigate 
OPSEC violations on its information networks. 
3.8.3.  Provide policy and guidance for DAF notice-and-consent activities. 
3.8.4.  Oversee Communication Security monitoring training. 
3.8.5.  Participate in the DAF IO governance structure. 
3.9.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) and Chief Operations Officer 
(SF/COO) will:. 
 
 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
5 
3.9.1.  Co-serve as the offices of primary responsibility (OPR) for oversight of DAF IO 
doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities 
considerations. The AF/A3 and SF/COO will serve as the senior service Information 
Officers and representatives. 
3.9.2.  Develop doctrine, policy and guidance for IO. 
3.9.3.  Ensure IO, MISO, Deception Activities, and OPSEC requirements and capabilities 
are integrated across the Air Force, where applicable, in accordance with DoDD 3600.01, 
Information Operations; DoDI O-3607.02, Military Information Support Operations 
(MISO); DoDI S-3604.01, Department of Defense Military Deception; and DoDD 
5205.02E, Operations Security (OPSEC) Program. 
3.9.4.  Develop and advocate for IO investment priorities. 
3.9.5.  Serve as the senior DAF officers for IO, horizontal integrators, and service 
representatives for IO-related functions when interfacing with Department of Defense and 
other government agencies. 
3.9.6.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6, the Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
Reconnaissance (SF/S2), and SF/CTIO to integrate and synchronize IO with the full range 
of Information Warfare capabilities, policy, oversight, and guidance. 
3.9.7.  Oversee all IO and related training for the IO career force to include military and 
civilian personnel. 
3.9.8.  Coordinate with SAF/PA to ensure public affairs capabilities and requirements are 
factored into all Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education 
considerations, where applicable, in accordance with DoDD 5122.05, Assistant to the 
Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, and DoDI 5400.13, Public Affairs Operations in 
accordance with applicable law, DoD policy and authorities. 
3.9.9.  If necessary, charter and chair a DAF governance structure to develop strategy and 
investment recommendations, in coordination with AF/A2/6, SF/COO, SF/S2, and 
SF/CTIO (AF/A3 only). 
3.9.10.  Serve as the DAF IO Functional Authority and Program Manager for designated 
IO and related capabilities and programs, to include the functional management for the 14F 
Air Force Specialty Code career field. 
3.9.11.  In coordination with other career field managers, AF/A3 and SF/COO will be 
responsible for functional oversight, force development, and talent management of the IO 
career force (military members and civilian employees) with respect to the performance of 
IO activities. 
3.9.12.  Require all DAF IO staffs, units, and career force personnel to complete annual 
Intelligence Oversight training, in coordination with AF/A2/6 and SF/S2. 
3.10.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategy, Integration and Requirements (AF/A5) and Deputy 
Chief of Space Operations for Strategy and Resourcing  (known as the Chief Strategy 
and Resourcing Office (SF/CSRO)) will:. 
 
 
6 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
3.10.1.  Coordinate with AF/A3 and SF/COO on policy and strategy issues related to 
Electromagnetic Warfare operations in the Information Environment. 
3.10.2.  Participate in the DAF IO governance structure. 
3.11.  Air Combat Command (ACC), Space Operations Command (SpOC), and Space 
Training and Readiness (STAR) Delta (Provisional) will:. 
3.11.1.  Perform lead command responsibilities and functions for IO (e.g. MISO; 
Deception Activities; OPSEC) and COMSEC monitoring (ACC and SpOC only). 
3.11.2.  Lead the development of intelligence and Cyberspace integration into IO and 
related activities (ACC and SpOC only) . 
3.11.3.  Support integration of IO into exercises and Air Force Warfare Center’s academic 
training (ACC only). 
3.11.4.  Develop, update, and maintain IO and related capability training course 
information to the Joint Training Course Database according to Joint Staff guidance (ACC 
and STAR Delta (Provisional) only). 
3.11.5.  Provide administration, management, and oversight of the 14F Air Force IO career 
field initial skills training course (ACC only). 
3.11.6.  Serve as the office of primary responsibility for the distributed-learning and in-
residence Information Operations Integration Course to include Air Force Operations 
Security Course, Operational Military Deception Course, U.S. Army Information 
Operations Integration Course-Military Information Support Operations, U.S. Army 
Special Operations Command Psychological Operations Qualification Course, or other 
similar validated courses and establish course requirements and student eligibility criteria 
(ACC and STAR Delta (Provisional) only). 
3.11.6.1.  Coordinate with the respective Air Education and Training Command 
(AETC), ACC, Air National Guard and STAR Delta (Provisional) schoolhouses to 
refine, modify, review, validate and approve course objectives and education 
requirements. 
3.11.6.2.  Resource and execute travel funding for Regular Air Force and Space Force 
military and civilian employee students.  Resource courseware development efforts 
beyond lesson sustainment (e.g., substantial syllabus revisions) for all DAF IO, 
Deception Activities, MISO and OPSEC courses.  ACC will also fund student 
attendance for the U.S. Army Information Operations Integration Course-Military 
Information Support Operations and Psychological Operations Qualification Course 
courses.  ACC may fund additional courses based on validated and budgeted 
requirements. 
3.11.6.3.  Resource and execute travel funding for Space Force military and civilian 
employee students as required (STAR Delta (Provisional) only). 
3.11.7.  Provide global recommended sourcing solutions and feasibility risk analyses as 
defined by the current Global Force Management Implementation Guidance and Joint Staff 
directives in support of Force Provider responsibilities  (ACC and SpOC only). 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
7 
3.11.8.  In coordination with appropriate functional authorities, ensure sufficient and 
proficient IO and related capabilities are available to Air Force Forces, Space Force Forces, 
Air Operations Centers, Operations Centers and Space Delta 5 (ACC and SpOC only). 
3.11.9.  Manage, maintain, provide and resource reach-back support for IO (ACC and 
SpOC only). 
3.11.10.  Coordinate, test and evaluate emerging IO capabilities for operational forces, 
national agencies, and the acquisition community (ACC and STAR Delta (Provisional) 
only). 
3.11.11.  Develop IO tactics, techniques and procedures for joint and DAF operational 
planners in support of current and future operations (ACC and SpOC only). 
3.11.12.  Manage, resource and provide OPSEC reach-back support for awareness, 
education, planning, readiness training, assessments, and operational support to the DAF 
OPSEC program (ACC and STAR Delta (Provisional) only). 
3.11.13.  Provide support and conduct OPSEC External and Program Management 
Assessments on behalf of Headquarters Air Force (ACC only). 
3.12.  Air 
Education 
and 
Training 
Command 
(AETC) 
and 
STAR 
Delta 
(Provisional).  Will participate in, and chair when appropriate, Utilization and Training 
Workshops and DAF Training Planning Teams, when addressing IO training requirements. 
3.13.  Air Force Materiel Command and Space & Missile System Center/Space Systems 
Command will:. 
3.13.1.  Develop acquisition guidance for IO mission systems. 
3.13.2.  Provide the subject matter expertise necessary to assist the Air Force Materiel 
Command centers, the Program Managers, Air Force Forces, Space Force Forces, Air 
Operations Center/Operations Center and Space Delta 5 to explore alternative 
developmental courses of action for new capabilities, as well as ensuring integration of IO 
into weapon systems’ Research, Development, Testing & Evaluation. 
3.13.3.  Ensure that IO mid-term and long-term research and technology shortfall issues 
are adequately addressed through Air Force Research Laboratory. 
3.13.4.  Ensure AF/A3 and SF/COO is well informed of all relevant Science & Technology 
and Research, Development, Testing & Evaluation efforts to include other Major 
Command and Field Command IO organizations. 
3.14.  Air National Guard will. 
3.14.1.  Maintain the Information Operations Integration Course advanced distributed 
learning per the Air Force instructional system development process.  Maintain course 
integrity, joint perspectives and alignment with DoDD 3600.01, Information Operations; 
DoDI O-3607.02, Military Information Support Operations (MISO); DODI S-3604.01, 
Department of Defense Military Deception; and DoDD 5205.02E, Operations Security 
(OPSEC) Program. 
3.14.2.  Coordinate on IO education and training with ACC, STAR Delta (Provisional), 
AETC and Air Force Reserve Command. 
8 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
3.15.  All Major Commands and Field Commands, Direct Reporting Units/Offices, and 
Field Operating Agencies will. 
3.15.1.  Coordinate with ACC/SpOC to develop new IO initiatives into Joint or Air 
Force/Space Force experimentation and acquisition activities. 
3.15.2.  Appoint Major Command and Field Command functional area managers and 
program managers for IO.  Direct Reporting Units, and Field Operating Agencies are only 
required to appoint program managers. 
3.15.3.  Assist Air Staff and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations (referred to as 
Space Staff) in the performance of their Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, 
Leadership and Education responsibilities, as required. 
3.15.4.  Provide an IO annual Operations and Maintenance budget (e.g., manpower, 
investments, Air Force Forces, Space Force Forces, Air Operations Center/Operations 
Center IO Teams, etc.) to AF/A3, SF/COO, ACC and SpOC. 
3.15.5.  Organize, train, and equip IO career force and capabilities, to include readiness 
assessment and evaluation functions, and lead integration of appropriate authorized and 
approved IO into all mission areas. 
3.15.6.  Integrate IO into strategic planning processes and assist with the development of 
IO guidance, enabling concepts and understanding of relevant authorities. 
3.15.7.  As appropriate, assist Combatant Commands, Component Major Commands and 
Field Commands, Component Numbered Air Forces, or Air Operations Centers/Operations 
Centers with synchronizing and deconflicting IO effects with other respective Functional 
and Geographical Major Commands or Field Commands. 
3.15.8.  Coordinate with AF/A3 or SF/COO on all exercise and training requirements 
associated with IO. 
 
JOHN P. ROTH 
Secretary of the Air Force (Acting) 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
9 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
National Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Directive (NSTISSD) No. 600, 
Communications Security (COMSEC) Monitoring, 10 April, 1990 
DoD Directive (DoDD) 3600.01, Information Operations, 2 May 2013 
DoDD 3700.01, DoD Command and Control (C2) Enabling Capabilities, 22 October 2014 
DoDD 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and its Major Components, 21 
December 2010 
DoDD 5122.05, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, 7 August 2017 
DoDD 5205.02E, DoD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, 20 June 2012 
DoDI O-3607.02, Military Information Support Operations (MISO), 13 June 2016 
DoDI S-3604.01, Department Of Defense Deception Activities, 18 September 2019 
DoDI 3608.11, Information Operations Career Force, 4 November 2005 
DoDI 3608.12, Joint Information Operations (IO) Education, 4 Nov 2005 
DoDI 5400.13, Public Affairs Operations, 15 October 2008 
DoDI 8560.01, Communications Security (COMSEC) Monitoring, 22 August 2018 
DoD Strategy for Operations in the Information Environment, 13 June 2016 
CJCSI 3211.01F, Joint Policy for Military Deception (S), 14 May 2015 
JP 3-13, Information Operations, 27 November 2012 
JP 3-13.2, Military Information Support Operations, 21 November 2014 
JP 3-13.3, Operations Security, 6 January 2016 
JP 3-13.4, Military Deception, 26 January 2012 
JP 3-61, Public Affairs, Incorporating Change 1, 19 August 2016 
AFMD 2, Air Combat Command, 3 November 2016 
Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-13, Information Operations, 28 April 2016 
Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-61, Public Affairs Operations, 10 September 2020 
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, Incorporating Change 4, 13 March 
2012 
AFI 10-701, Operations Security, Incorporating Change 1, 9 June 2020 
AFI 10-704-S, Military Deception (MILDEC) Program, 9 January 2015 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
10 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AF—Air Force 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
COMSEC—Communications Monitoring 
COO—Chief Operating Officer 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
IO—Information Operations 
JP—Joint Publication 
MISO—Military Information Support Operations 
OPSEC—Operations Security 
PA—Public Affairs 
SF—Space Force 
SpOC—Space Operations Command 
STAR—Space Training and Readiness 
USSF—United States Space Force 
Terms 
Communication Security (COMSEC)—A component of Information Assurance that deals with 
measures and controls taken to deny unauthorized persons information derived from 
telecommunications and to ensure the authenticity of such telecommunications. COMSEC 
includes cryptographic security, transmission security, emissions security, and physical security 
of COMSEC material. (Committee on National Security Systems Instruction No. 4009; DoDI 
8560.01) 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
11 
Communication Security Monitoring—The act of listening to, copying, or recording 
transmissions of one's own official telecommunications to provide material for analysis in order 
to determine the degree of security being provided to those transmissions.  (NSTISSD No. 600, 
Communications Security Monitoring) 
Cyberspace—A global domain within the information environment consisting of the 
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures and resident data, including the 
Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and 
controllers. (Joint Pub 3-12) NOTE: synonymous with cyber when used as an adjective. 
Deception Activities—DoD deception activities may be employed to mask, protect, reinforce, 
exaggerate, minimize, distort, or otherwise misrepresent U.S. technical and operational 
capabilities, intentions, and operations, as well as DoD research, development, testing, evaluation 
(RDT&E), services, and acquisitions programs and activities. There are three categories of 
Deception Activities; Joint Military Deception (MILDEC), Deception in Support of Operations 
Security (DISO), and Tactical Deception (TAC-D). For further clarification see AFI 10-704 (S), 
Military Deception (MILDEC) Program. 
Functional Area Manager—The principal advisor to their respective commander/functional 
director/Deputy Chief of Staff on the management and oversight of all personnel and equipment 
within a specific functional area to support operational planning and execution.  Responsibilities 
may include developing and reviewing policy; developing, managing and maintaining Unit Type 
Code(s); developing criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing, analysis, and 
execution activities which are crucial to the management and execution of our Air Force readiness 
programs (AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution). 
Influence—The power to change or affect someone or something. 
Information—Conveys or represents a particular arrangement or sequence of things. Information 
is stimuli that have meaning in some context for its receiver. 
Information Environment (IE)—The aggregate of individuals, organizations, and systems that 
collect, process, disseminate, or act on information.  (JP 3-13, Information Operations) 
Information Operations (IO)—The integrated employment, during military operations, of 
information-related capabilities in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt, 
corrupt, or usurp the decision-making of adversaries and potential adversaries while protecting our 
own. Also called IO. See also electromagnetic warfare; military deception; military information 
support operations; operations security. (JP 3-13, Information Operations) 
Information Operations Career Force—A force consisting of units, staff elements, and 
individual military professionals in the Active and Reserve Components, and DoD civilian 
employees who conduct or directly support the integration of information related capabilities 
against adversaries and potential adversaries during military operations as well as those who train 
these professionals (DoDD 3600.01). 
Military Information Support Operations (MISO)—Planned operations to convey selected 
information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective 
reasoning, and ultimately the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and 
individuals in a manner favorable to the originator’s objectives (JP 3-13.2, Military Information 
Support Operations). 
12 
DAFPD10-7  22 JUNE 2021 
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The office is responsible for ensuring the training is 
valid and current to include directly supporting Headquarters Air Force with either Information 
Operations, Deception Activities, Military Information Support Operations or Operations Security 
efforts. 
Operations Security (OPSEC)—A capability that identifies and controls critical information, 
indicators of friendly force actions attendant to military operations, and incorporates 
countermeasures to reduce the risk of an adversary exploiting vulnerabilities. Also called OPSEC.  
(JP 3-13.3, Operations Security) 
Public Affairs (PA)—Communication activities with external and internal audiences. Also called 
PA. See also command information; public information. (JP 3-61, Public Affairs). 
 
