BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-10 
10 JULY 2018 
Operations 
JOINT USE OF MILITARY AND 
CIVILIAN FLYING FACILITIES 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: HQ USAF/A3OJ 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-10,  
                        25 October 2007 
Certified by: HQ USAF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark C. Nowland) 
Pages: 5 
 
 
This policy directive implements Title 49, United States Code (USC) sections 44502, 47103 and 
47107.  It applies to all United States Air Force (USAF), Air National Guard (ANG) and Air 
Force Reserve Command (AFRC)  installations.  It also applies when civil aircraft use Air Force 
(AF) ramps at civil airports hosting USAF, ANG and AFRC  units.  Ensure all records created as 
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force 
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force 
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. Send all 
recommendations for changes or comments about this publication to the Office of Primary 
Responsibility using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  This version 
supersedes all previous versions of Air Force Policy Directive 10-10.  It deletes references to 
Commercial Activity on Military Installations Contracts. 
 
 
2 
AFPD10-10  10 JULY 2018 
1.  Policy.  The Air Force will manage programs to grant civil aircraft access to military airfields, 
to include civil aircraft landing permits and airfield joint-use agreements. 
1.1.  Landing Permits.  Landing permits will be issued for civil aircraft operating in support 
of official government business, for a one-time situation or for a limited duration.  Other 
types of use may be authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances.  Note:  Civil aircraft 
access to Air Force airfields on foreign territory requires host nation approval. 
1.2.  Joint Use Agreements are developed for two types of routine joint airfield use: civil use 
of military airfields and military use of civil airfields. 
1.2.1.  Civil Use of Military Airfields.  Civil use of the airfield infrastructure will be 
considered, when the proposed use does not compromise operations, security, readiness, 
safety, environment or quality of life, and the sponsoring government agency has 
sufficient financial resources to address costs associated with their use of the flying 
facilities.  The Air Force only invests in the necessary infrastructure to meet its 
operational mission requirements.  Local government representatives eligible to sponsor a 
public airport are the only recognized representatives to submit a request for use of Air 
Force airfields. 
1.2.2.  Military Use of Civil Airfields.  The Air Force may operate at no cost from 
airports that have received United States Government funding under the provisions of 49 
USC § 47107 except when the use is substantial.  Where the Air Force has a need for 
substantial use of a civilian airport, an agreement will be negotiated to outline 
responsibilities, rights and applicable fees.  In negotiating such agreements, the parties 
will take into consideration length of expected use and any associated permanently based 
(longer than one year) presence. 
1.3.  Airport Operations Agreements.  The Air Force may have the need to conduct 
occasional operations from an airport or flying facility that is not supported by the federal 
government.  An airport operations agreement may be negotiated with the managing director 
of the facility to outline responsibilities.  This type of agreement may be negotiated locally if 
it does not involve any fees or other transfer of resources (such as fuel fees, leases, etc.) and 
does not involve a continuous use or reach the level of substantial use (300 or more aircraft 
operations in one calendar month) by all combined federal users.  An operation is defined as 
a takeoff or landing. 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities: 
2.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Energy 
(SAF/IE) is responsible for installation and facility policy, policy for Air Force joint use 
programs, and committing access for the use of Air Force infrastructure.  SAF/IE is 
responsible for establishing policy for the Air Force’s joint use programs.  SAF/IE will: 
2.1.1.  Provide oversight regarding joint use flying facilities. 
2.1.2.  Serve as the final approval authority for all joint use agreements and airport 
operations agreements.  This approval authority may not be delegated for military 
airports.  For joint use agreements and airport operations agreements at civil airports, 
negotiation authority and  approval authority may be delegated on a case by case basis to 
the Major Command level, but no lower. 
AFPD10-10  10 JULY 2018 
3 
2.1.3.  Review all policy for adherence to Federal Aviation Administration guidance and 
Air Force operational requirements, and issue updates as necessary. 
2.1.4.  Ensure an annual review is completed on the status of all agreements to ensure 
compliance with negotiated terms, fee structure and payments, and assess the operational 
impacts of each agreement. 
2.1.5.  Ensure a review is accomplished for all deviations from proportional payments for 
fair use of jointly approved flying facilities fee structures. 
2.1.6.  Ensure a lead office is designated when multiple Air Force units share a common 
civil aviation facility.  When more than one service or federal agency is involved, the Air 
Force will coordinate with service counterparts and federal agencies to designate the lead 
federal agency. 
2.1.7.  Ensure a review is accomplished and approval granted for National Environmental 
Policy Act documentation in support of decision-making prior to granting access to, and 
use of, Air Force infrastructure, pursuant to Title 32 Code of Federal Regulations Part 
989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process. 
2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) will: 
2.2.1.  Ensure a review is accomplished of the operational impacts associated with the 
mixed military/civil use of airfields. 
2.2.2.  Ensure all impacts have been considered and addressed before forwarding a joint 
use proposal or agreement to SAF/IE. 
2.2.3.  Ensure a determination is made of the level of decision authority for landing 
permits and delegate authority as necessary to Major Commands and installation 
commanders. 
2.2.4.  Ensure all requests for exceptions or waivers to this policy directive and related 
Air Force instructions are processed unless otherwise delegated. 
2.2.5.  Ensure an annual review of all agreements is facilitated to evaluate adherence to 
each agreement’s terms and fees. 
2.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4), will: 
2.3.1.  Ensure a review is made of all proposed active duty agreements and renewals. 
2.3.2.  Ensure a review is made on all proposed airfield joint use agreements for 
compliance with the Environmental Impact Analysis Process (draft and final) and 
interrelated environmental and installation planning considerations for civilian operations 
on military airfields.  Advises and assists SAF/IE and AF/A3 with execution of the 
Environmental Impact Analysis Process and planning related issues. 
2.4.  The Secretary of the Air Force, General Counsel (SAF/GC) shall: 
2.4.1.  Provide legal advice to the Secretary of the Air Force concerning all matters 
associated with real property law, joint use federal regulations and other applicable legal 
requirements. 
4 
AFPD10-10  10 JULY 2018 
2.4.2.  SAF/GC is the principal legal advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force with 
respect to all legal issues and regulatory requirements relevant to the Air Force, and as 
appropriate advises Headquarters Air Force and SAF/IE on civil use of Air Force flying 
facilities and Air Force aircraft use of civil flying facilities and related services. 
2.5.  Major Commands, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command, 
will manage the program to effectively carry out this policy. 
3.  There will be only one Air Force Agreement supporting military operations  at a single 
civil airport.  When more than one Air Force unit regularly uses a civil aviation facility (more 
than 10% of total airport operations), SAF/IE will ensure a lead unit is designated who will 
account for the use of all Air Force activities and lead discussions with civil airport officials at 
the respective civil airport. 
4.  Exceptions.  The following exception to paragraph  1.1 apply: 
4.1.  Any aircraft operator with an in-flight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield 
without prior authorization.  An in-flight emergency is defined as a situation that makes 
continued flight hazardous. 
 
HEATHER WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
AFPD10-10  10 JULY 2018 
5 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
49 United States Code §§ 44502, 47103, and 47017 
Title 32 Code of Federal Regulation Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
 
