BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 13-2 
3 JANUARY 2019 
Operations 
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, AIRFIELD, 
AIRSPACE, AND RANGE 
MANAGEMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OJ 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD 13-2, 7 August 2007 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Mark D. Kelly) 
Pages: 5 
 
 
This Air Force Policy Directive implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5030.19, 
Department of Defense Responsibilities on Federal Aviation, DoDD 3200.15, Sustaining Access 
to the Live Training and Testing Domain, DoDD 4715.12, Environmental and Explosives Safety 
Management on Operational Ranges Outside the United States, Department of Defense 
Instruction (DoDI) 5030.36, Emergency Security Control of Air Traffic, and provides guidance 
for Airspace/Range Management and Airfield Operations, to include Air Traffic Control, 
Airfield Management, and Radar, Airfield & Weather Systems Maintenance.  This policy 
directive applies to all Air Force and Air Force contractor activities, including the Air National 
Guard and Air Force Reserve; all Air Force-operated primary training ranges and Major Range 
and Test Facility Base ranges that conduct range activities, as defined in Title 10 United States 
Code, Section (§) 101(e)(2).  Send all recommendations for changes or comments to the Office 
of Primary Responsibility using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route Air Force Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain 
of command.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of 
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management 
System Records Disposition Schedule. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  It clarifies 
policy applicability, and aligns Air Force policy, and roles and responsibilities pertaining to air 
2 
AFPD13-2  3 JANUARY 2019 
traffic control, airfield, airspace, and range management with Department of Defense Directive 
(DoDD) 5030.19, DoD Responsibilities on Federal Aviation. 
1.  Overview.  The Air Force and Department of Defense occupy a unique, three-part role 
associated with the National Airspace System, that of: (1) user; (2) service provider (air traffic 
control and navigational aids); and (3) regulatory authority (the authority to certify aircraft, 
airmen and airfields).  As user, provider, and regulatory authority, the Air Force, along with the 
Department of Defense and all of its components, have a vested interest in ensuring and 
enhancing their ability to operate seamlessly with civil aviation in both national and international 
airspace. 
2.  Policy.   The Air Force must sustain resources to provide a safe, operationally relevant flying 
environment that promotes combat readiness in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  
It is Air Force policy to do the following: 
2.1.  Provide the airspace, aviation support facilities, equipment, and services needed to 
accomplish its flying mission, including those complementary services integrated into the 
national airspace system.  The Air Force will not duplicate services provided by external 
agencies. 
2.2.  Staff, operate, and maintain airfield operations assets in peacetime for the purpose of 
directly supporting the expeditionary nature of Air Force contingency operations in terms of 
readiness, deployable capability. 
2.3.  Staff, operate, and maintain ranges that support required air, space and cyber testing and 
training.  Ranges are available for inter-service, intra-service, and foreign services use.  
Under certain circumstances, commercial entities can use these ranges for compatible 
operations on a non-interference basis provided no cost or liability is incurred by the Air 
Force.  Commercial use of the airspace associated with the ranges will be in accordance with 
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3): 
3.1.1.  Is responsible for policy and instruction for air traffic control, airfield, airspace, 
and range management. 
3.1.2.  Ensures operational policy and implementing direction are consistent with policies 
and instructions for air traffic control, airfield, airspace, and range management. 
3.1.3.  Ensures responsibilities assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force within DoDD 
5030.19, DoD Responsibilities on Federal Aviation are met, as outlined in Headquarters 
Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations. 
3.2.  Deputy 
Chief 
of 
Staff, 
Logistics, 
Engineering 
and 
Force 
Protection 
(AF/A4)  ensures maintenance, logistics, installation engineering, and force protection policy 
and implementing direction are consistent with policies and instructions for air traffic 
control, airfield, airspace, and range management. 
3.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Requirements (AF/A5)   ensures that requirements 
policy and implementing direction are consistent with policies and instructions for air traffic 
control, airfield, airspace, and range management. 
AFPD13-2  3 JANUARY 2019 
3 
3.4.  Chief of Safety (AF/SE): 
3.4.1.  Ensures safety policy and implementing direction are consistent with policies and 
instructions for air traffic control, airfield, airspace, and range management. 
3.4.2.  Collects flight safety information pertaining to air traffic control, airfield, airspace, 
and range management, and makes it available to organizations consistent with safety 
privilege guidelines. 
3.5.  Major Command Commanders, and Director, Air National Guard   ensures Major 
Command and Air National Guard policy and implementing direction are consistent with 
policies and instructions for air traffic control, airfield, airspace, and range management. 
 
HEATHER WILSON 
Secretary of the Air Force 
4 
AFPD13-2  3 JANUARY 2019 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5030.19, Department of Defense Responsibilities on 
Federal Aviation, Incorporating Change 1, 29 August 2017 
DoDD 3200.15, Sustaining Access to the Live Training and Testing Domain, 18 December 2013 
DoDD 4715.12, Environmental and Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges 
Outside the United States, 24 April 2007 
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5030.36, Emergency Security Control of Air Traffic, 
7 November 2017 
Title 10 United States Code § 101(e)(2), Definitions 
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, Incorporating Change 2, 
9 June 2016 
DoDD 5030.19, Department of Defense Responsibilities on Federal Aviation, 13 September 
2013, Incorporating Change 1, 31 July 2017 
DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base, 27 December 2007, Incorporating Change 
1, 29 August 2017 
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations,  
8 September 2015 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF—Air Force 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
HAF—Headquarters Air Force 
USC—United States Code 
Terms 
Major Range and Test Facility Base—The designated core set of Department of Defense Test 
and Evaluation infrastructure and associated workforce that must be preserved as a national asset 
to provide Test and Evaluation capabilities to support the Department of Defense acquisition 
system. (DoDD 3200.11). 
AFPD13-2  3 JANUARY 2019 
5 
Range—As set forth at 10 USC § 101(e)(1), the term “range” when used in a geographic sense, 
means a designated land or water area that is set aside, managed, and used for range activities of 
the Department of Defense.  Such terms include the following: 
     (A)  Firing lines and positions, maneuver areas, firing lanes, test pads, detonation pads, 
impact areas, electronic scoring sites, buffer zones with restricted access, and exclusionary 
areas. 
     (B)  Airspace areas designated for military use in accordance with regulations and 
procedures prescribed by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. 
As set forth at 10 United States Code § 101(e)(2), the term “range activities” means— 
     (A)  Research, development, testing, and evaluation of military munitions, other ordnance, 
and weapons systems; and 
     (B)  The training of members of the armed forces in the use and handling of military 
munitions, other ordnance, and weapons systems. 
Primary Training Range—Primary training ranges are established to accommodate training.  
They are not designed or structured to accommodate test and evaluation activities. 
 
