BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNICQUES 
3-10.3
14 MAY 2021 
Tactical Doctrine 
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SUPPORT 
TO FORCE PROTECTION IN 
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at 
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
OPR: SAF/IGX 
Supersedes: 
AFTTP 3-10.3, 25 August 2015 
Certified by: SAF/IG 
(Lt Gen Sami D. Said) 
Pages: 14 
This Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) describes the activities the Air Force 
Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) employs in support of AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense.  
AFOSI conducts investigations, operations, and counterintelligence (CI) collection activities to 
find, fix, track, and neutralize adversary threats to enable Department of the Air Force operations.  
This AFTTP describes command and organizational relationships, execution using functional 
capabilities, and training requirements to conduct effective CI support to force protection (CISFP).  
While these TTP principles are focused on expeditionary operations in high threat locations, the 
tactical doctrine principles remain the same for home-station operations.  This AFTTP applies to 
civilian employees and uniformed members of the Department of the Air Force, the Air Force 
Reserve, and the Air National Guard.  The doctrine prescribed in this document is authoritative, 
but not directive.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records 
Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed of in accordance with the 
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information 
Management System.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the 
Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate career field functional 
manager’s chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all 
Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification 
and approval. 
2 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include realigning counterthreat operations under the broader concept of CISFP; reflecting 
language in updated Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD) 39, Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations and joint publications; and redefining how Tactical Security Elements fall within 
the deployed chain of command. 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
3 
Chapter 1 
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO FORCE PROTECTION OVERVIEW 
1.1.  Overview.  AFMD 39, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, directs AFOSI, a federal 
law enforcement and CI agency and combat-ready military organization, to provide the 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) a wartime CI capability.  AFOSI conducts operations in 
hostile, uncertain, and permissive environments, throughout multiple domains, to protect the 
designated vital interests of the DAF, Department of Defense (DoD), and U.S. Government from 
adversary threats.  Adversary threats include terrorists, insider threats, foreign intelligence entities, 
criminals, and enemy forces.  AFOSI, utilizing concurrent law enforcement and CI authorities, 
neutralizes threats with appropriate interagency, joint, and combined forces, primarily through 
CISFP. 
1.2.  CISFP.  CISFP is the employment of AFOSI capabilities in support of friendly force 
protection efforts.  Force protection includes offensive and defensive preventive measures taken 
to mitigate hostile actions against personnel, resources, facilities, and critical information.  AFOSI 
operates inside and outside of established base perimeters and is the DAF lead for identifying, 
locating, and tracking adversaries threatening U.S. and allied personnel, resources, facilities, and 
critical information.  CISFP provides commanders situational awareness, drives force protection 
condition changes, and forewarns of possible attacks.  AFOSI conducts the following activities in 
support of FP:  CI investigations and operations; offensive CI operations; CI collection activities, 
such as military CI collections (MCC), liaison, threat briefings, tactical debriefings, field 
interviews, and tactical questioning; site exploitation; surveillance, counter surveillance, and 
surveillance detection; protective service operations; CI activities in cyberspace; threat 
assessments and analysis; and CI functional services, such as technical services, technical 
surveillance countermeasures, polygraph, and credibility assessments. 
1.3.  Counterthreat Operations.  As a subset of CISFP, AFOSI executes Counterthreat 
Operations (CTO) in hostile and uncertain environments to find, fix, track, neutralize, and assess 
threats in order to create a sustained permissive environment for air, space, and cyberspace 
operations.  Threats to active airfields may extend far beyond the area designated as a base 
boundary, including aircraft approach and departure corridors and indirect fire attacks to taxiing 
and parked aircraft.  To address these threats, the air component uses the base security zone 
construct to plan for and consider the ground threats and hazards that could affect airfield 
operations.  AFOSI CTO supports these efforts by seamlessly collecting, fusing, and disseminating 
intelligence on threats to the base security zone from a broad array of sources on a continual basis. 
1.3.1.  CTO utilizes intelligence-driven operations employing information derived from 
multiple intelligence and CI sources.  Successful CTO requires deliberate collaboration, 
coordination, and deconfliction between AFOSI personnel and entities of various U.S. and 
foreign partner agencies.  A whole-of-government and interservice approach, coupled with 
partnerships from host nation law enforcement and intelligence services, will effectively 
neutralize threats and foster DAF interests.  AFOSI executes CTO by integrating all AFOSI 
capabilities into the Air Force "kill chain" cycle (find, fix, track, neutralize, and assess) to 
achieve the desired effects.  In joint or coalition environments, AFOSI integrates its capabilities 
into joint, coalition, or host-nation “kill chain” processes.  CTO tactical doctrine is a 
compilation of knowledge and expertise and describes the appropriate AFOSI role in integrated 
4 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
defense (ID) in hostile and uncertain environments.  In permissive environments and in 
friendly foreign countries, AFOSI executes CISFP in accordance with AFOSI Instruction, 71-
144, Volume 1, Execution of AFOSI’s Counterintelligence Mission. 
1.4.  CISFP Planning.  CISFP supports military operations by providing threat information to 
commanders at all levels, from combatant commands to subordinate joint forces.  Commanders 
depend on timely, accurate threat information and intelligence, including the adversary’s 
disposition, tactics, intent, and capabilities, to inform their decision-making processes and better 
understand the operational environment (OE).  AFOSI units should develop CISFP plans focused 
on providing the commander with the intelligence required to create desired effects and achieve 
operational objectives. 
1.4.1.  CISFP plans must take into account the relevant, local aspects of the OE, such as the 
adversary and other actors, and factors such as political, military, economic, social, 
information, and infrastructure systems.  CISFP plans consist of, but are not limited to, a unit’s 
mission, map layout illustrating the base security zone, areas of concern/areas of influence, 
focused collection requirements, identified threats, and potential adversary courses of action. 
1.4.2.  When planning CTO, the friendly freedom of maneuver along with adversary capability 
and intent, in the base security zone, must be considered when assessing how any outside-the-
wire actions will be executed.  AFOSI should only conduct unilateral CTO activities in a hostile 
environment when U.S./coalition forces are assessed as dominating the ground defense area.  
When US/coalition forces do not dominate the ground defense area, AFOSI senior leaders and 
supported commanders must assess the minimum enabler capabilities required to mitigate risk 
for any outside-the-wire activity by AFOSI members.  If requisite enablers are not in place, 
AFOSI personnel should only operate as part of larger maneuver units. 
1.5.  CISFP Training.  Executing successful CISFP requires training and familiarity in multiple 
CI disciplines, working with interagency and coalition partners, and diplomacy.  Additionally, due 
to the inherent danger of CTO missions, all effort should be made to maximize training.  Effective 
ground combat skills are imperative to survival in hostile, highly contested, or uncertain 
environments with degraded communications.  Initial and recurring field training on perishable 
skills is vital and should be conducted both in pre-deployment and in theater.  Refer to Attachment 
2 for examples of skills on which AFOSI agents and analysts should be trained prior to conducting 
CTO.  Refer to Reading List, Attachment 3 for additional references and resources to be more 
familiar with the CISFP mission and guidance. 
1.5.1.  The United States Air Force Special Investigations Academy Counter Threat 
Operations Course trains AFOSI agents in realistic scenarios to perform in high-risk locations 
more efficiently and effectively.  This training is a team-centered, operationally intense, 
execution-based immersion course designed to train agents in core tactical skills.  Curriculum 
focuses on perishable skill sets used in hostile or non-permissive environments.  Prior to a 
contingency deployment or assignment, all military and civilian AFOSI personnel are required 
to attend mandatory advanced training, in accordance with AFI 10-403_AFOSISUP, 
Deployment Planning and Execution. 
1.5.2.  AFOSI agents conducting CTO should conduct formal pre-mission briefings, rehearsals 
of concept drills, and post-mission debriefings. Mission briefings should, at a minimum, 
include any foreign and domestic mission participants to ensure compatibility of gear, 
communications equipment, communication details for quick reaction forces and emergency 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
5 
medical services, routes, objectives, and mission understanding.  Supporting partners, such as 
Joint Terminal Attack Controllers, Explosive Ordnance Disposal teams, or K-9 Handlers, are 
encouraged to participate in mission planning and support CTO activities.  When AFOSI 
agents are teamed with a Security Forces Tactical Security Element (TSE), Battle Drills should 
be conducted before every mission. 
6 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
Chapter 2 
JOINT AND NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATIONS, RESPONSIBILITIES, 
AND PROCEDURES 
2.1.  Organization.  AFOSI prepares and organizes combat-ready forces to meet the needs of the 
Department of the Air Force. This implies a high level of training, flexibility in organization and 
equipment, and professional leadership.  Although a standard force structure is not realistic for all 
contingencies, a deployed AFOSI force should have the following elements to effectively conduct 
CISFP in concert with joint or combined command goals and objectives. 
2.1.1.  Leadership.  Deployed AFOSI expeditionary leaders, detachment commanders or 
special agents-in-charge, report directly to the designated agent who is part of, or coordinates 
closely with, the Commander of Air Force Forces staff. 
2.1.2.  Special Agents.  AFOSI special agents should be trained in the CI collection activities 
listed in paragraph 1.2, the competencies listed in Attachment 2, and in the CTO Execution 
Cycle during the requisite pre-deployment training prior to conducting CISFP activities in an 
expeditionary environment. 
2.1.3.  Administrative Support.  Deployed administrative personnel generally have the 
requisite training and security clearances to conduct support functions (e.g., office 
management, human resources, executive support, postal/official mail, commander programs, 
and limited client level information technology support) that enable the AFOSI unit or 
personnel to conduct the CISFP mission. 
2.1.4.  TSE.  Threat dependent, AFOSI units and personnel should conduct CISFP with 
dedicated TSE in contested, complex, hostile and uncertain environments.  A TSE provides 
the manpower, equipment, and firepower to enhance freedom of movement beyond the 
established base perimeter, independently of other ground maneuver units. 
2.1.5.  Analysts.  AFOSI units should have embedded analysts with the requisite skill and 
training to analyze adversary threats. AFOSI embedded analysts should continuously gather 
and fuse relevant threat information from a broad array of sources.  CI analysis helps focus 
collection and targeting activities. 
2.1.6.  Linguists.  AFOSI units should have embedded linguists, specializing in native 
language, dialects, and cultural nuances, in the operational environment.  The linguists should 
be vetted and have appropriate security clearances. 
2.1.7.  Intelligence Community integration/imbeds.  AFOSI units should have organic IC 
capability within units conducting CISFP mission.  These capabilities help provide force 
protection and expand other operational competencies. 
2.2.  Command Relationships.  AFOSI supports combatant command theater campaign plans 
throughout the range of military operations, such as security cooperation, crisis response, and 
large-scale combat operations.  Therefore, command relationships with supported commands vary 
across this spectrum.  AFOSI Commanders direct the activities of those forces assigned or attached 
to an AFOSI unit.  Command relationships in a joint environment for AFOSI operations are 
described in Joint Publication (JP) 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States; JP 2-
01.2, Counterintelligence and Human Intelligence Support to Joint Operations; and JP 3-10, Joint 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
7 
Security Operations in Theater.  When supporting a Secretary of Defense-approved operation, 
command authority for AFOSI forces conducting CISFP is delegated from the Joint Force 
Commander (JFC), through the COMAFFOR, to the designated senior deployed agent. 
Administrative control (ADCON) for AFOSI forces remains within the AFOSI chain of command 
at all times. 
2.2.1.  The COMAFFOR exercises operational control (OPCON) over AFOSI CISFP 
activities. The Secretary of the Air Force retains responsibility for law enforcement, CI 
investigations, and associated matters, and exercises this responsibility through the 
Commander, AFOSI.  In the case of forces attached to another Service, responsive to a 
validated Request for Forces (RFF), OPCON may be delegated to the commander holding 
OPCON over all RFF forces. 
2.2.2.  AFOSI personnel not attached to an Air Expeditionary Task Force, who are performing 
the CISFP mission in a Joint Operational Area (JOA), are normally under the ADCON of the 
AFOSI senior deployed agent in theatre (e.g., personnel providing support to a contingency 
response group/contingency response element). 
2.2.3.  AFOSI routinely requires additional support elements to effectively conduct CISFP in 
concert with Service or joint command goals and objectives.  When AFOSI requires 
Department of the Air Force forces to provide additional support elements, support 
requirements should be defined in a component’s Operations Order (OPORD), support plan, 
or similar issuance, as appropriate for the location and area of operations.  When TSE is part 
of the CTO package, AFOSI is the primary customer and will receive priority in mission 
planning.  Conflicts between AFOSI and TSE may occur depending on theater dynamics, and 
the type of support required to achieve service or joint command objectives.  It is imperative 
that AFOSI and TSE leaders resolve any such conflicts expeditiously at the lowest level 
possible, due to a high possibility of degraded or unavailable reach back communications in 
environments where disagreements may manifest. 
2.2.4.  AFOSI detachment commanders or special agents-in-charge normally coordinate their 
unit’s CTO activities in hostile, highly contested, and uncertain environments with the 
appropriate base operations center (e.g., Base Defense Operations Center [BDOC], Tactical 
Operations Center [TOC], Battle Space Owner, etc.) and maintain communications with that 
element to facilitate freedom of movement, unity of effort, and safety of forces.  AFOSI 
personnel, when operating in a joint/combined environment, must understand the rules of 
engagement (ROE), or the Rules for the Use of Force (RUF), established by the joint force 
commander.  AFOSI personnel should also establish Standard Operating Procedures for 
situations of degraded or unavailable communications. 
8 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
Chapter 3 
CTO EXECUTION CYCLE 
3.1.  The CTO Execution Cycle.  CISFP contributes to a keen awareness of the operating 
environment including Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment, and it 
incorporates the full range of functions/activities AFOSI uses to find, fix, track, neutralize, and 
assess the adversary.  CTO activities help create a sustained permissive environment for air, space, 
and cyberspace operations.  CTO capabilities are widely variable depending on their application 
combined with the prevailing threat, threat state, environment, friendly forces available, ROE, 
RUF, applicable laws, and other factors that characterize an operational area. 
3.2.  The five phases of the CTO Execution Cycle:  Find, fix, track, neutralize, and assess (see 
Figure 3.1). 
3.2.1.  Find.  The find phase requires clearly designated guidance.  This guidance is typically 
provided via established priority intelligence requirements and associated collection 
requirements.  These requirements drive CI collection planning and operations.  CI collections 
lead to the detection of current and emerging targets.  Tailored all-source analysis drives and 
focuses CI collections activities.  AFOSI personnel should be familiar with the multiple 
targeting cycles present in a joint/combined operating environment and can be attached to 
support operational elements/capabilities in a limited fashion when skill sets specific to AFOSI 
(site exploitation, field interviews, tactical questioning, and MCC) are requested and approved 
with agent safety as the first priority. 
3.2.2.  Fix. The fix phase uses analysis and prioritization to determine if an emerging target is 
worthy of engagement.  It may begin when an emerging target is detected or soon thereafter. 
When an emerging target is detected, sensors (human source networks, intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) platforms), liaison activities, specialist activities, and 
information operations are focused to confirm the target’s identity and precise location.  Target 
location and other information must be accurately refined to permit tracking and neutralization.  
The completion of the fix phase results in a confirmed target with a designated CTO named 
operation. 
3.2.3.  Track.  Tracking is done with the initiation/continuation of specific and directed CI 
collection and investigative activities.  Tracking is also accomplished with the employment of 
specific ISR platforms.  Information obtained during this phase is compiled and documented 
in a comprehensive target package. 
3.2.4.  Neutralize.  The neutralize phase begins after collected information is determined to be 
credible.  Actionable intelligence or a comprehensive target package may be provided to a 
direct action authority for neutralization of the threat.  AFOSI activities in this phase may 
include: positive identification; surveillance (physical, technical, or both); apprehension; 
recruitment; influence operations; and computer network exploitation.  AFOSI forces 
disseminate actionable intelligence to direct action units and operations centers to support 
exploitation, seizure, SE, cordon and search, detention, or capture/kill operations. 
3.2.4.1.  Careful consideration of the intelligence gain-loss (IGL) balance must be made.  
It may be appropriate to delay engagement to allow better intelligence gathering and 
validation of veracity on a network of threats rather than take action on a single target. 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
9 
3.2.4.2.  In hostile and uncertain environments, AFOSI normally coordinates with 
maneuver units within the battlespace for target package execution.  Following the 
execution of a CTO target package, AFOSI special agents may participate in field 
interviews, tactical questioning, and SE, including documenting the site, searching the site, 
prioritizing exfiltration, seizing evidence, and exploiting materials. 
3.2.5.  Assess.  Tactical assessments determine the effectiveness of executed CTO activities.  
The principal question answered during the assess phase is whether desired effects and 
objectives were achieved.  In cases of fleeting targets, quick assessments from trusted sources 
may be required in order to make expeditious re-attack recommendations. 
Figure 3.1.  The CTO Execution Cycle. 
3.3.  Reporting. 
3.3.1.  CTO reports contribute to commanders’ overall awareness of the OE.  AFOSI reports 
normally are disseminated to the intelligence and law enforcement communities, as 
appropriate, at all levels and during all phases of the CTO execution cycle.  These reports 
include, but are not limited to, suspicious incident reports, intelligence information reports 
(IIRs), comprehensive target packages, analytical products, and spot reports.  In certain 
situations, AFOSI reports the results of activities, such as field interviews and SE, including 
biometric evidence from accredited laboratory reports, to host-nation counterparts for 
inclusion into prosecution processes.  After proper exploitation, AFOSI can provide material 
evidence collected during SE directly to host nation prosecutors and law enforcement agencies 
for their use. 
TERRY L. BULLARD, Brig Gen, USAF 
Commander 
Air Force Office of Special Investigations 
10 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
AFI 10-403_AFOSISUP, Deployment Planning & Execution, 23 July 2019 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFMD 39, Office of Special Investigations, 14 April 2020 
AFOSII 71-144, Volume 1, Execution of AFOSI’s Counterintelligence Mission, 1 May 2019 
JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 23 Mar 2013 (as Amended through 12 
July 2017) 
JP 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, as of June 2020 
JP 1-04, Legal Support to Military Operations, 2 August 2016 
JP 2-01, Joint and National Intelligence Support to Military Operations, 5 July 2017 
JP 2-01.2, Counterintelligence and Human Intelligence in Joint Operations, 6 April 2016 
JP 3-0, Joint Operations, 17 January 2017 (as Amended through 22 October 2018) 
JP 3-01, Countering Air and Missile Threats, 21 April 2017 
JP 3-05, Special Operations, 16 July 2014 
JP 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater, 25 July 2019 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ADCON—Administrative Control 
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations 
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center 
CI—Counterintelligence 
CISFP—Counterintelligence Support to Force Protection 
COMAFFOR—Commander of Air Force Forces 
CTO—Counterthreat Operations 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DOD—Department of Defense 
IC—Intelligence Community 
ID—Integrated Defense 
IGL—Intelligence Gain-Loss 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
11 
IIR—Intelligence Information Report 
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
JFC—Joint Forces Commander 
JOA—Joint Operational Area 
JP—Joint Publication 
MCC—Military CI Collections 
OE—Operational Environment 
OPCON—Operational Control 
OPORD—Operations Order 
RFF—Request for Forces 
ROE—Rules of Engagement 
RUF—Rules for the Use of Force 
SE—Site Exploitation 
TACON—Tactical Control 
TOC—Tactical Operations Center 
TSE—Tactical Security Element 
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
Terms 
Administrative Control (ADCON)—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other 
organizations in respect to administration and support. 
Counterintelligence (CI)—Information gathered and activities conducted to identify, deceive, 
exploit, disrupt, or protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or 
assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons or their 
agents, or international terrorist organizations or activities. 
Counter Surveillance—All measures, active or passive, taken to counteract hostile surveillance. 
Direct Action (DA)—Short-duration strikes and other small-scale offensive actions conducted as 
a special operation in hostile, denied, or diplomatically sensitive environments and which employ 
specialized military capabilities to seize, destroy, capture, exploit, recover, or damage designated 
targets. 
Hostile Environment—Operational environment in which hostile forces have control, as well as 
the intent and capability, to effectively oppose or react to the operations that a unit intends to 
conduct. 
Liaison—That contact or intercommunication maintained between elements of military forces or 
other agencies to ensure mutual understanding and unity of purpose and action. 
12 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
Neutralize—1. As pertains to military operations, to render ineffective or unusable. 2. To render 
enemy personnel or materiel incapable of interfering with a particular operation. 3. To render safe 
mines, bombs, missiles, and booby traps. 4. To make harmless anything contaminated with a 
chemical agent. 
Operational Control (OPCON)—The authority to perform those functions of command over 
subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, 
designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. 
Permissive Environment—Operational environment in which host country military and law 
enforcement agencies have control as well as the intent and capability to assist operations that a 
unit intends to conduct. 
Positive Identification—An identification derived from observation and analysis of target 
characteristics including visual recognition, electronic support systems, non-cooperative target 
recognition techniques, identification friend or foe systems, or other physics-based identification 
techniques. 
Protective Service Operations (PSO)—The use of specialized techniques and procedures by 
trained personnel to ensure a principal’s personal safety and security during a specific event, while 
traveling, or over an extended period of time. When required, a PSO can be tailored to provide 24-
hour protection. 
Rules Of Engagement (ROE)—Directives issued by competent military authority that delineate 
the circumstances and limitations under which United States forces will initiate and/or continue 
combat engagement with other forces encountered.  
Site Exploitation (SE)—A series of activities to recognize, collect, process, preserve, and analyze 
information, personnel, and/or materiel found during the conduct of operations. 
Surveillance—The systematic observation of aerospace, surface, or subsurface areas, places, 
persons, or things, by visual, aural, electronic, photographic, or other means. 
Tactical Questioning—Direct questioning by any DoD personnel of a captured or detained person 
to obtain time-sensitive tactical intelligence at or near the point of capture or detention and 
consistent with applicable law. 
Target Packages—Targeting information provided by AFOSI to direct action units/authorities 
(Army, SOF, Coalition Forces, Host Nation Police etc.) for the purposes of identifying and 
neutralizing threats. 
Technical Services—This support encompasses two distinct mission sets: the DAF's Technical 
Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM) Program and AFOSI's technical surveillance program.  
AFOSI is responsible for executing DAF's TSCM Program, which includes techniques and 
measures to detect, neutralize, and/or exploit a wide variety of foreign technical surveillance 
technologies that are used to obtain unauthorized access to classified and sensitive information.  
AFOSI also provides technical surveillance support, including covert video and audio surveillance, 
vehicle tracking, photo surveillance, lock bypass, wiretap and other esoteric surveillance 
techniques. 
Uncertain Environment—Operational environment in which host government forces, whether 
opposed to or receptive to operations that a unit intends to conduct, do not have totally effective 
control of the territory and population in the intended operational area. 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
13 
Attachment 2 
SKILLS LIST 
Table A2.1.  Skills List. 
Advanced Firearms & Tactics 
Recognize & Neutralize Improvised 
Explosive Devices 
Deployed Concept of Operations 
Self-Defensive Tactics 
Deployed Liaison 
Small Unit Tactics 
Deployed Stress Management 
Survival, Evasion, Resistance & Escape 
Deployed Theatre & Cultural Orientation 
Tactical Combat Casualty Care 
Developing Standard Operating Procedures Tactical Communications 
Global Positioning System Use 
Tactical Foot Movements 
High Value Target Packages 
Tactical Questioning / Interviews 
Individual & Field Equipment Use 
Tactical Vehicle Movements 
Intelligence Information Report Writing 
Terrorism / Insurgency TTPs 
Land Navigation Map & Compass 
Threat Detection / Attack Recognition 
Military CI Collections Operations 
Urban Operations 
Night Operations 
Vehicle Search & Security 
Night Vision Techniques & Procedures 
Working with Linguists 
Operational Planning 
Working with Ground Maneuver Units 
Personal Security Operations 
Note:  The  following  list  contains  examples  of  skills  on which AFOSI  agents  
should  be  trained prior to conducting CTO. 
14 
AFTTP3-10.3  14 MAY 2021 
Attachment 3 
READING LIST 
Figure A3.1.  Recommended Reading List. 
AFI 16-402, Counter-Insider Threat Program Management, 17 June 2020 
AFOSI Manual 71-114, Surveillance Operations, 30 June 2009 
AFOSI Manual 71-144 V1, Execution of AFOSI’s Counterintelligence Mission, 1 May 2019 
AFOSI Manual 71-144 V3, Protective Services Operations, 29 September 2020   
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 21 June 2018 
AFTTP 3-4.7, Contingency Response, 30 September 2017 
Army Field Manual 3-24, Insurgencies and Countering Insurgencies, 13 May 2014  
DHE-M Vol. I 3301.001 (S//NF), Collection Requirements, Reporting, and Evaluation 
Procedures (U), Incorporating Change 2, 1 Feb 12 
DoDD 3115.09, DoD Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical 
Questioning, 27 April 2018 
DoDD 5240.02, Counterintelligence, 16 May 2018 
DoDD 5240.06, Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting, 31 August 2020 
DoDI 5240.04, Counterintelligence Investigations, 18 September 2020 
DoDI 5240.05, Technical Surveillance Countermeasures, 27 August 2020 
DoDI S-5240.09, (U) Offensive Counterintelligence Operations, 18 July 2016 
DoDI S-5240.17, (U) Counterintelligence Collection Activities, 14 March 2014 
DoDI 5240.22, Counterintelligence Support to Force Protection, 8 September 2020 
DoDI 5240.26, Countering Espionage, International Terrorism, and the Counterintelligence 
Insider Threat, 30 April 2018 
JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 31 May 2016  
JP 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, as of June 2020 
JP 2-01, Joint and National Intelligence Support to Military Operations, 5 July 2017 
JP 2-01.2, Counterintelligence and Human Intelligence in Joint Operations, 6 April 2016 
JP 3-0, Joint Operations, 17 January 2017 (as Amended through 22 October 2018) 
JP 3-07.2, Antiterrorism, 14 March 2014 
JP 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater, 25 July 2019 
