BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES 
AND PROCEDURES 3-42.5 
23 JULY 2019 
Tactical Doctrine 
AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering and on the 
Headquarters Air Mobility Command, Command Surgeon, Manpower & 
Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) SharePoint at: 
https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/12956/default.aspx 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
OPR: HQ AMC/A3OE 
Supersedes: 
AFTTP 3-42.5, 1 November 2003 
Certified by: AF/A3T 
(Maj Gen Scott F. Smith) 
Pages: 41 
The Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-42 series is the primary reference 
for medical combat support capabilities. This document provides Tactics, Techniques and 
Procedures (TTP) for Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) across the full range of military operations, 
Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) responses, and other operations in accordance with 
Joint Publication (JP) 4-02, Joint Health Services, and Air Force Doctrine (AFD) Annex 3-17, Air 
Mobility Operations. This publication applies to all Air Force military personnel in the Regular 
Air Force, Air Reserve Component (ARC), and Air Force civilian personnel (Air National Guard 
[ANG] is considered to be a Major Command [MAJCOM] in this publication). The doctrine in 
this document is authoritative but not directive. Ensure all records created as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, 
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition 
Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended 
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF 
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847 through the 
appropriate chain of command and parent MAJCOM. The use of the name or mark of any specific 
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply 
endorsement by the Air Force. 
2 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This AFTTP has been significantly revised. It should be reviewed in its entirety. 
Chapter 1— OVERVIEW 
4 
1.1. 
 Purpose....................................................................................................................  
4 
1.2. 
 Scope .......................................................................................................................  
4 
1.3. 
 Caution ....................................................................................................................  
4 
Chapter 2— AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION MISSION 
5 
2.1. 
 AE Mission .............................................................................................................  
5 
2.2. 
 AE Concepts ...........................................................................................................  
5 
2.3. 
 Theater Aeromedical Evacuation System (TAES) Elements.  ...............................  
6 
2.4. 
 Planning for AE.   ...................................................................................................  
7 
2.5. 
 Medical Operations in Denied Environments (MODE) Concept.   ........................  
7 
Chapter 3— COMMAND AND CONTROL 
9 
3.1. 
 Introduction.   ..........................................................................................................  
9 
3.2. 
 Roles and Responsibilities.   ...................................................................................  
9 
3.3. 
 Patient Movement Management.  ...........................................................................  
10 
3.4. 
 Joint Force Air Mobility Operations Structure.   ....................................................  
10 
3.5. 
 Operational C2.   .....................................................................................................  
11 
3.6. 
 Airlift Control Agencies. ........................................................................................  
13 
3.7. 
 Air Expeditionary Forces. .......................................................................................  
14 
3.8. 
 Clinical Oversight. ..................................................................................................  
14 
Chapter 4— OPERATIONS 
16 
4.1. 
 AE Across the Range of Military Operations.   ......................................................  
16 
4.2. 
 Steady-State/Peacetime Engagement and Crisis Response.   .................................  
16 
4.3. 
 Deterrence and Contingency Operations.   .............................................................  
17 
4.4. 
 CONUS Contingency AE.   ....................................................................................  
17 
4.5. 
 AE Interface with the Joint Community.   ..............................................................  
17 
4.6. 
 AE Interface with the Patient Movement Process.   ...............................................  
18 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
3 
4.7. 
 Mission Coordination and Operational Considerations.   .......................................  
19 
Chapter 5— PLANNING AND SUPPORT CONSIDERATIONS 
21 
5.1. 
 CONOPS.   ..............................................................................................................  
21 
5.2. 
 Movement of Casualties.   ......................................................................................  
22 
5.3. 
 PM Evacuation Precedence Categories and Movement Precedence.   ...................  
22 
5.4. 
 AE Planning Factors.   ............................................................................................  
23 
5.5. 
 Theater Evacuation Policy.   ...................................................................................  
23 
5.6. 
 Airframe Considerations.   ......................................................................................  
24 
5.7. 
 Airfield Capability.   ...............................................................................................  
24 
5.8. 
 Uncertain or Hostile Operational Environment.   ...................................................  
24 
5.9. 
 Base Operating Support (BOS) and Operations Support.   .....................................  
24 
5.10. 
 Biomedical Equipment Technician (BMET) Support.   .........................................  
24 
5.11. 
 Communications.   ..................................................................................................  
25 
5.12. 
 Ground Transportation.   .........................................................................................  
25 
5.13. 
 Determining Crew Support.   ..................................................................................  
26 
5.14. 
 AE Interface with Special Mission Forces.   ...........................................................  
26 
5.15. 
 AE UTC Employment Concept.   ...........................................................................  
26 
5.16. 
 AE UTC Selection and Utilization.   ......................................................................  
26 
5.17. 
 AE Mission Support Equipment. ............................................................................  
29 
5.18. 
 AE Equipment and Supplies. ..................................................................................  
30 
5.19. 
 Patient Movement Items (PMI). .............................................................................  
31 
Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
33 
Attachment 2— ADDITIONAL RESOURCES 
39 
4 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
Chapter 1 
OVERVIEW 
1.1.  Purpose.    This guidance is designed to assist AE planners to successfully integrate and 
execute AE within the greater Department of Defense (DOD) Patient Movement (PM) system. 
1.2.  Scope.    AE is just one component of the DOD En Route Care (ERC) Capability, or En Route 
Casualty Care System (ERCCS), which enables continuation of care during movement 
(evacuation) without clinically compromising a patient’s condition. The Air Force AE system 
provides a critical PM capability which cuts across traditional Service lines. Historically, the 
majority of AE patients generated during wars and contingency operations since World War II 
came from Army and Marine Corps ground combat units. Therefore, it is important that the AE 
system integrates well with medical components of all Services, not just those of the Air Force. 
Moreover, the past decade has increasingly revealed the necessity of advancing AE interoperability 
with coalition and allied AE partners (reference AFD Annex 3-17 and JP 4-02). 
1.3.  Caution.    Do not use this instruction as permission to move patients (AFI 48-307V1, En 
Route Care and Aeromedical Evacuation Medical Operations). Patients must be eligible for 
aeromedical transportation according to Department of Defense (DOD) Instruction 4515.13, Air 
Transportation Eligibility (additionally reference AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, Air Force 
Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-1, Personnel Movement, and any current, operational DOD, AF, or 
theater-specific directives). 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
5 
Chapter 2 
AEROMEDICAL EVACUATION MISSION 
2.1.  AE Mission.    The United States Air Force (USAF) AE system provides a critical patient 
movement capability that crosses traditional Service lines. Since World War II, the preponderance 
of AE patients generated during wars and contingency operations has come from U.S. Army 
(USA) and U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) ground combat units. Therefore, it is important the AE 
system integrates well with the medical components of all Services. Moreover, during the past 
decade, it has become increasingly important the USAF AE system continue to develop its 
capability to integrate with components of our Nation’s allies. Air Mobility Command Surgeon 
(HQ AMC/SG) is the Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsible 
Agency (MRA) and HQ AMC A3/10 is the Functional Area Manager (FAM). 
2.1.1.  The rapid evacuation of patients during contingencies is necessary to prevent undue 
suffering and preserve military strength. AE provides time-sensitive En Route Care (ERC) of 
regulated and unregulated casualties to and between medical treatment facilities using organic 
and/or contracted aircraft with medical aircrew trained explicitly for the mission. AE forces 
can operate as far forward as aircraft are able to conduct air operations, across the full range of 
military operations, and in all operating environments. Specialty medical teams may be 
assigned to work with the aeromedical evacuation crewmembers (AECM) to support patients 
requiring more intensive ERC. 
2.2.  AE Concepts.    The AE system provides: (1) Integrated control of casualty movement by air 
transport; (2) Specialty trained aircrew clinicians and operational support personnel; (3) 
Equipment for in-flight supportive medical care and ground support operations; (4) En Route 
Critical Care (ERCC) to monitor and manage specific patients requiring intensive care; and (5) En 
Route Patient Staging System (ERPSS) capability/patient preparation at or near secure airstrips for 
the processing and care of casualties entering, en route, or leaving the AE system. 
2.2.1.  The primary mission of the DOD Patient Movement (PM) system is to transport U.S. 
military casualties from within the Joint Operations Area (JOA) to the appropriate role of care 
provided in or out of the theater, as required. United States Transportation Command 
(USTRANSCOM) is designated as the DOD single-manager for global Patient Movement 
(PM). USTRANSCOM oversees PM via the regionalized United States Transporation 
Command Patient Movement Requirements Centers (TPMRCs). Timely PM plays an 
important role in support of the Joint Task Force (JTF) Concept of Operations (CONOPS) and 
evacuation requirements. The PM system provides a continuum of care and coordinates the 
movement of patients from site of injury or onset of disease, through successive roles of care, 
to a Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) meeting the needs of the patient. Each Service 
component has an organic PM capability and is responsible for evacuation from point of injury 
(POI) to initial treatment at a Military Treatment Facility (MTF). 
2.2.2.  Casualty evacuation (CASEVAC), a term used by all Services in the forward 
environment from the POI, refers to the unregulated movement of casualties aboard ships, 
vehicles, or aircraft. Joint/Service intra-theater PM is accomplished in the “forward or tactical” 
environment evacuating or moving regulated and unregulated patients through a combination 
of medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) and CASEVAC assets. MEDEVAC assets are dedicated 
ground and air ambulances permanently equipped and staffed with medical attendants for ERC 
6 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
and are the preferred method of patient movement. In the forward or tactical environment 
CASEVAC assets, which are designated and may or may not have appropriate ERC, 
supplement the MEDEVAC and greater PM mission throughout the operational area (OA) to 
meet necessary mission requirements. In addition to MEDEVAC/CASEVAC assets in the 
intra-theater environment, USAF fixed-wing AE assets move patients over extended distances 
to meet intra-theater PM requirements. Joint/Service inter-theater PM is accomplished solely 
by the USAF AE system to move patients out of the OA and to Role 3 and 4 MTFs to meet the 
patients’ definitive care needs. 
2.2.3.  The operational environment (OE) during major operations and campaigns may present 
lethal threats requiring the evacuation of casualties to highly developed medical capabilities in 
the JOA and locations outside the JOA for advanced medical services and rehabilitative care. 
The decreased medical footprint and the increased PM requirements demand a more 
interdependent medical community, improved interagency and multinational partnerships, and 
joint solutions. 
2.3.  Theater Aeromedical Evacuation System (TAES) Elements.  A component of ERCCS, 
the TAES is modular by design and can be tailored and deployed to meet situational requirements. 
The AE process is dependent upon reliable, pertinent, and timely communication and coordination 
between the originating requestor, the Patient Movement Requirements Center (PMRC), the 
appropriate airlift agency, AE elements, and the destination MTF. When deployed, the TAES 
provides a rapid, flexible, incremental, mobile response. Unit type codes (UTCs), elements of the 
TAES, are employed to provide command, control, communications, patient care, and system 
support. The AE system needs to have the capability to move casualties after minimal stabilization 
from forward areas. The concept is to employ an immediate, versatile, and flexible AE presence 
to respond to the needs of deployed forces. After the initial buildup, planners can augment the 
deployed teams with additional manpower and equipment (augmentation packages), as required, 
to support more intense or ongoing operations. 
2.3.1.  Expeditionary Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron/Flight (EAES/EAEF). The EAES 
may be assigned to an expeditionary wing, air expeditionary operations group, or expeditionary 
operations support squadron as an expeditionary AE flight. The EAES provides command 
functions for all AE personnel assigned to the air expeditionary wing. The EAES ensures all 
elements are prepared to conduct AE operations as tasked by the Air Operations Center (AOC) 
and will provide AE assets to support the wing operations center. The EAES can arrange 
support requirements for follow on AE forces, as required. 
2.3.2.  AE Command Squadron (AECS). Provides command of assigned AE forces. This UTC 
provides procedural and technical guidance and management oversight for assigned, attached, 
and transiting AE elements. 
2.3.3.  Aeromedical Evacuation Crews. AE crews are specially trained to perform in-flight 
medical care, are experts on aircraft configuration and aerospace physiology (how stresses of 
flight affect patients), and provide the operational interface between the patient, medical 
equipment, and aircraft systems. 
2.3.4.  ERCC Teams. Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT). CCATT is an example of 
one type of ERCC team. CCATTs provide specialized care, in conjunction with AE crews, to 
evacuate patients requiring critical care during transport. CCATTs represent a specialty or 
critical care team added to the basic AE crew in order to offer a higher level of care to stabilized 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
7 
patients during AE staging and flight. AE missions moving regulated patients that require the 
addition of a CCATT will be validated by the PMRC and tasked by an AE control team 
(AECT). Refer to AFTTP 3-42.51, Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT), for command 
and control (C2) relationships. 
2.3.5.  En Route Patient Staging System. The ERPSS is a flexible modular patient staging 
system able to operate across the spectrum of scenarios, such as military operations, Foreign 
Humanitarian Assistance (FHA), and Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). Utilizing 
the ERPSS force modules to support operations ranging from 10-250 beds, patients may be 
held from 6 to 72 hours, dependent upon the arrival of the earliest opportune aircraft for which 
a patient can be prepared for AE. The primary mission of the ERPSS is to provide personnel 
and equipment necessary for 24-hour staging operations for patients entering and transiting the 
ERC system worldwide. The ERPSS coordinates and communicates with medical and AE 
elements to accomplish patient care and PM, including ground transportation. It provides 
patient reception, provides complex medical/surgical nursing, provides limited emergent 
intervention, and ensures patients are medically and administratively prepared for flights. Refer 
to AFTTP 3-42.57, En Route Patient Staging System, for C2 relationships. 
2.3.6.  Aeromedical Evacuation Liaison Team (AELT). The AELT provides support between 
the forward user and the AE system in the form of operational and clinical interface. This 
interface may occur at locations that do not otherwise have USAF personnel on them such as 
far forward/bare bases and shipboard. 
2.3.7.  Aeromedical Evacuation Operations Team (AEOT). AEOTs are located at strategic 
airlift hubs or en route locations to support aircrews, equipment, and launch and recovery 
operations. The AEOT provides direct supervision and crew management for assigned, 
attached, and transiting AE crews and CCATTs in conjunction with the air mobility operations 
control center, AECT, and base operations, as applicable. 
2.4.  Planning for AE.  AE planners are an integral part of the airlift planning team and should 
build appropriate AE support into the en route structure. The AE planner should interface with 
medical planners to ensure appropriate medical capability along airlift routes. Comprehensive 
planning will ensure a coordinated effort in providing timely and effective evacuation. 
2.4.1.  Aeromedical Evacuation Planning Factors. AE planners must take many factors into 
account to select the best or most appropriate means of executing each AE mission. Airlift 
routes must be identified in order to establish potential AE plans. Based on planning directives, 
the Combatant Command (CCMD) operation plans (OPLAN) and concept plans (CONPLAN) 
will include bed- down of AE capable airlift, strategic aerial port of debarkations and/or aerial 
ports of embarkation, planned mission routing, availability of intra/inter-theater retrograde 
airlift for AE missions, and planned patient movement requirements (evacuees) by C-Day (the 
unnamed day on which a deployment operation commences or is to commence). For more on 
AE Planning Factors, see Chapter 5 of this publication and Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 10-
1403, Air Mobility Planning Factors. 
2.5.  Medical Operations in Denied Environments (MODE) Concept.  Future adversaries will 
employ Anti-Access and Area Denial (A2/AD) against the United States and our allies in order to 
deter and prevent access of U.S. and coalition forces. The AE system must be prepared to provide 
health service support over vast distances and in areas with little to no patient staging capability. 
MODE is a limited objective concept, describing the necessary joint medical force required to treat 
8 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
and evacuate casualties from the POI to definitive medical care and subsequent evacuation to low 
risk areas within the JOA or uncontested environments outside the JOA. To address the A2/AD 
contested environment, the MODE concept suggests integrated medical forces create cross-domain 
synergies to produce the required medical forces with the capability and capacity to operate in 
contested environments. Anti-Access (A2) strategies impede movement into a theater and compel 
forces to operate from greater distances. Area Denial (AD) strategies threaten maneuverability 
within a particular theater. The emerging concepts of A2/AD could significantly alter how military 
medicine and patient movement operations are delivered in future conflicts. Medically, an inherent 
tension exists between the potential mass casualty of an A2/AD missile strike and the imperative 
need to reduce the large combat support capability. For additional information, reference JP 3-0, 
Joint Operations. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
9 
Chapter 3 
COMMAND AND CONTROL 
3.1.  Introduction.  Command and Control (C2) functions exercised over AE missions are 
consistent with those for all air mobility missions and are conducted in accordance with (IAW) the 
C2 processes as described in Joint Publication 3-17, Air Mobility Operations; Air Force Doctrine 
Annex 3-30, Command and Control; and Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, 
which includes specific sections on AE doctrine. In contingency operations, AE-specific tasks and 
objectives will be outlined in the military order (execute order [EXORD], deployment order 
[DEPORD], operation order [OPORD]) and may include references such as Annex C, Appendix 
30, and Annex Q from supporting deliberate planning products (base plan [BPLAN], concept plan 
[CONPLAN], operation plan [OPLAN]).  AE assets are integrated within the inherent mobility 
structure established to support airlift operations through the Air Mobility Division (AMD) to the 
wing and down to the assigned expeditionary AE squadron/element. A comprehensive summary 
of command functions and relationships may be found in Chapter 2 of AFI 48-307V1, En Route 
Care and Aeromedical Evacuation Medical Operations. 
3.2.  Roles and Responsibilities.  Patient evacuation from point of injury to initial treatment at a 
health care facility is the responsibility of each Service component. The Geographic Combatant 
Commander (GCC), in conjunction with the supporting commanders, sets the theater PM policy 
for contingency planning. USTRANSCOM, as Distribution Process Owner (with the exception of 
intra-theater PM) and single “point” manager for PM coordinates with the GCCs and the Services 
on the implementation and enforcement of PM policies. Upon execution, the GCC adjusts the 
theater PM policy as required. The joint command validates theater requirements for peacetime 
and contingency PM and identifies potential channel movement to USTRANSCOM transportation 
validation process. CCMD OPLANs will include appropriate information to support Service 
planning for patient evacuation. 
3.2.1.  USTRANSCOM is the DOD single manager for PM, providing global PM in 
coordination with the GCCs, through the Defense Transportation System. USTRANSCOM is 
responsible for PM in the U.S. and worldwide. This includes support for natural disasters, 
counterterrorist activities, and the redistribution of normal support through a direct support 
relationship rather than transferring forces. USTRANSCOM will typically retain operational 
control (OPCON) of its assets for intertheater AE operations, with C2 provided by the 618 
AOC (Tanker/Airlift Control Center [TACC]). USTRANSCOM provides standardized 
processes for managing PM events, ensuring patient safety and quality of care, to include 
conducting any event reviews or investigations of PM activities from entry of the patient into 
the PM system to arrival at the destination MTF. 
3.2.1.1.  Service units operating within the scope of the PM system should develop an 
active PM safety program. Instructions apply to all Services, GCCs, military MTFs, and 
divisions deployed or in garrison involved in the PM process. 
3.2.1.2.  The Commander (CC)/USTRANSCOM, through the USTRANSCOM Command 
Surgeon (SG), oversees the worldwide PM safety program, coordinates with the Secretaries 
of the military departments to ensure compliance through implementation of effective 
quality assurance/quality control consistent with Joint Staff health support policies, and has 
10 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
authority to direct an event review and/or medical incident investigation for all events in 
coordination with GCC SGs. 
3.2.2.  Each Service is responsible for organizing, training, and equipping their forces to ensure 
the capability to meet their PM requirements. Evacuation may require any combination of air, 
ground, or sea resources. To ensure patients receive continuous, timely, and quality care, all 
personnel involved in the PM system must be fully trained, and essential evacuation assets 
(such as personnel, platforms, equipment, and supplies) must be programmed, procured, and 
sustained. Establishing a seamless PM system requires close coordination with the Services on 
employment of PM doctrine, CONOPS, modernization and sustainment of equipment and 
platform capabilities, and interoperability of Patient Movement Items (PMI)/PMI in-kind. 
3.3.  Patient Movement Management. 
3.3.1.  The Joint PMRC (JPMRC) integrates medical regulation responsibilities (the proper 
MTF specialty bed), transportation movement requirements (best mode of transportation, such 
as aircraft/ships/ground vehicles), mission requirements determination (the right medical crew 
members and medical equipment), coordination, and related activities supporting DOD PM 
requirements. The JPMRC provides the TPMRC type, automated information system support, 
and operations for a joint force. Normally, supporting activities are established to support joint 
force DOD PM operations within the designated OA. When operating within an area that 
already has an established TPMRC, the TPMRC maintains overall visibility for theater DOD 
PM operations, while the JPMRC supports DOD PM operations within the OA and coordinates 
with the TPMRC for USAF intratheater PM and the Global PMRC (GPMRC) for intertheater 
PM. 
3.3.2.  TPMRC. The TPMRC consists of TPMRC-Americas, supporting the Americas; 
TPMRC-West, supporting the western hemisphere; and TPMRC-East, supporting the eastern 
hemisphere. All three have a permanent PMRC managing the validation and regulation of PM 
within, and between, their respective theaters. The TPMRC is responsible for theater-wide PM 
(e.g., medical regulating and in coordination with the AE control team, AE scheduling) and 
coordinates with theater MTFs to allocate the proper treatment assets required to support its 
role. The TPMRC communicates this transport to bed plan to the theater Service transportation 
component or other agencies responsible for executing the mission. 
3.3.3.  GPMRC. The GPMRC is a joint activity reporting directly to the Commander, 
USTRANSCOM, which provides medical regulating and aeromedical evacuation scheduling 
for the continental United States and intertheater operations, provides support to the TPMRCs, 
and coordinates with supporting resource providers to identify available assets and 
communicates transport to bed plans to the appropriate transportation agency for execution. 
3.4.  Joint Force Air Mobility Operations Structure.  During joint operations, a GCC may 
conduct operations at the theater level within their area of responsibility (AOR), or they may 
establish a JTF with a designated joint operations area (JOA) to conduct operations. In both cases, 
the commander is a joint force commander (JFC), and if Air Force forces are assigned/attached, a 
commander of Air Force forces (COMAFFOR) will be designated, typically delegated OPCON of 
those Air Force forces. If the COMAFFOR is also designated the joint force air component 
commander (JFACC), they will normally be delegated tactical control (TACON) over forces made 
available for tasking. A JFC is responsible for PM within their operational area. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
11 
3.4.1.  The COMAFFOR is delegated authority from the JFC who assigns missions, directs 
coordination among subordinate commanders, and redirects and organizes forces to ensure the 
air component can accomplish the overall mission. AE operations are an important part of the 
JFC’s mission, and the COMAFFOR plays a critical role in successful AE operations. 
3.4.1.1.  An AE contingency planner should be incorporated into the COMAFFOR staff to 
outline, develop, and coordinate AE theater plans along airlift routes, including number 
and location of AE assets needed to support operational requirements. The AE contingency 
planner should also coordinate with the Air Force Forces (AFFOR) Surgeon to ensure 
visibility of theater medical facilities/capabilities affecting AE plans. These functions may 
be provided from HQ AMC Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), utilized in a reach back status 
to support operations until a senior AE expert or AE planner is identified. 
3.4.2.  COMAFFOR Special Staff. For contingency operations, the COMAFFOR special staff 
includes a senior AE expert as identified, in conjunction with the AE force provider, HQ AMC 
A3/10, to support the COMAFFOR on the special staff. The AE expert will have extensive 
experience in the AE and ERC system, airlift operations and plans, and will have attended 
mandatory training as part of HQ AMC A3/10 pre-selection and training requirements. This 
person will serve on the advanced echelon (ADVON) support staff, assist with the 
development of the initial AE force lay down, C2, and coordinate the interface with airlift 
operations. 
3.4.3.  The Director of Mobility Forces (DIRMOBFOR) is the COMAFFOR’s designated 
coordinating authority with all agencies affecting air mobility operations. The DIRMOBFOR 
is also the advisor on how best to effectively and efficiently use air mobility assets. He or she 
is normally assigned or attached to the COMAFFOR’s special staff to assist in planning and 
conducting air mobility operations and should be given appropriate liaison authority. The 
DIRMOBFOR normally exercises coordinating authority between the geographic Air 
Operations Center (AOC), the 618 AOC (TACC), and deployment and distribution operations 
centers to expedite the resolution of air mobility issues. They normally have direct liaison 
authority (DIRLAUTH) with other organizations. Additionally, the DIRMOBFOR ensures the 
effective integration of inter-theater and intra-theater air mobility operations and facilitates the 
conduct of intra-theater air mobility operations. 
3.4.4.  A Deputy DIRMOBFOR/AE may deploy as part of an ADVON, or as a member of the 
AMD. Deputy DIRMOBFOR/AE candidates with AE expertise will be selected by HQ AMC 
/A3/10 and trained in the AOC, and will attend the theater validation course. This individual, 
when tasked, will fully integrate into the AMD and assist the DIRMOBFOR in all other duties 
as required. 
3.5.  Operational C2.  The AE system has been standardized to ensure peacetime processes mirror 
wartime processes. This allows for the system to exercise its wartime infrastructure in peacetime 
and enhance wartime training. Command and control of AE assets, to include tasking authority for 
AE and mobility forces, resides with the normal airlift and mobility C2 structure. Field and AE 
squadron operations will be conducted through operational inter-theater wing C2 channels. Intra-
theater air mobility operations are defined by geographic boundaries. Air mobility forces assigned 
or attached to that GCC normally conduct these operations. Intra-theater common-user air mobility 
assets are normally scheduled and controlled by the theater Air Force AOC or Joint Air Operations 
Center (JAOC) if established. 618 AOC (TACC) serves as the AOC for the HQ AMC air mobility 
12 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
mission and is responsible for tasking and controlling operational missions for all activities 
supporting HQ AMC’s global air mission. 
3.5.1.  HQ AMC manages and operates the inter-theater and AE subsystems, and provides AE 
elements and planning assistance to the theater, in intermediate supporting theaters, or in the 
U.S. The United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) and United States Pacific Air Forces 
(PACAF) are responsible for theater-assigned AE units and associated airlift units. When 
contingencies exceed theater AE capabilities, HQ AMC will provide mission-specific 
augmentation forces to support increased theater requirements and will expand or establish the 
inter-theater capability to support movement between theaters, or to and within the U.S., as 
required. 
3.5.2.  Movement of patients between points within a GCC’s area of responsibility is referred 
to as intra-theater, while movement of patients between GCC’s area of responsibility to points 
outside the area of responsibility, is referred to as inter-theater. In both cases, AE’s portion of 
en route medical care is provided by qualified flight nurses (FN) and Aeromedical Evacuation 
Technician (AET) and can be supported with medical attendants (MA), CCATTs, or other 
ERCC teams. 
3.5.2.1.  Intra-theater. These operations are regional in nature and serve a single CCMD’s 
requirements. They are normally conducted using forces assigned, attached, or made 
available for tasking to the CCMD. Patients are most likely to enter the joint system for 
evacuation and medical regulation at the theater hospitalization capability. However, 
casualties can enter at the forward resuscitative care capability, depending on the type of 
operation and forces supported. Intra-theater patient movement requires a coordinated 
effort between Service and host nation (HN) MTFs, the responsible PMRC, and Service 
component organic and theater evacuation assets. The Joint Force Surgeon (JFS) is 
responsible for developing intra-theater policies in coordination with Service component 
evacuation representatives. 
3.5.2.2.  Inter-theater. These operations are generally global in nature and serve the 
transportation needs of the CCMD outside the JOA supporting the conduct of operations 
within the JOA. USTRANSCOM directs policies and procedures for inter-theater patient 
movement and identifies transport resources. Currently, inter-theater patient movement is 
primarily conducted utilizing airlift assets because long evacuation distances may preclude 
other modes of patient movement in supporting rapid evacuation out of the CCMD AOR. 
However, circumstances permitting other modes and lift assets may be used for inter-
theater patient movement. Patients are most likely to enter the inter-theater system from a 
theater hospitalization capability for movement to a definitive care capability, outside the 
theater, and eventually to the U.S. Inter-theater patient movement requires a coordinated 
effort between Service or HN MTFs, responsible PMRCs, and transportation agencies. 
3.5.3.  The airlift agency (AOC/JAOC/AMD) will execute the AE mission by optimizing the 
use of available multi-mission aircraft, mixing cargo and AE on mobility missions, and 
integrating AE requirements into cargo channel routes. Airlift for urgent and priority patients 
will be tasked from alert AE crews, if necessary, diversion of in-system select aircraft, or 
contracting with a civilian air ambulance. Each patient’s clinical requirements may also dictate 
specific airframe use. To enhance responsiveness, AE crews and CCATTs should be 
strategically positioned based on airlift and key patient originating locations. On execution, 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
13 
AE plans may integrate allied and/or other Services’ airlift capabilities, when appropriate. AE 
and airlift elements are tasked through the Air Expeditionary Wing (AEW) using an air tasking 
order. The AEW will provide airlift, aircrews, and augmentation assets (equipment and/or 
specialized medical personnel) to comply with the tasking. AE assets are placed at strategic 
locations throughout the JOA for rapid response. 
3.6.  Airlift Control Agencies. 
3.6.1.  618 AOC (TACC). The 618 AOC (TACC) is responsible for tasking and controlling 
operational missions for all activities supporting USTRANSCOM’s global air mobility 
mission. Its functions include, but aren’t limited to: current operations, C2, AE and aerial port 
operations, mission management, flight planning, deployment, diplomatic clearances, weather, 
and intelligence. 
3.6.1.1.  618 AOC (TACC) Aeromedical Evacuation Division. The AE Division is the 
source of AE operational expertise and mission execution within the 618 AOC (TACC) for 
USTRANSCOM assigned intra- and inter-theater AE Forces. The AE Division provides 
C2 to assigned AE elements and provides the clinical and operational interface between 
airlift operations and the PMRC. AE Division personnel have extensive knowledge of 
flight physiology, airlift AE capability, and information technology such as operational 
mission planning, tasking, scheduling, and mission monitoring of airlift and AE assets to 
support PM, as well as coordination with the PMRC for medical issues. 
3.6.2.  Geographic AOC/Air Mobility Division. The Geographic AOC/AMD plans, 
coordinates, tasks, and executes the intra-theater air mobility mission. The AMD is led by the 
AMD Chief who ensures the AMD works as an effective division of the AOC in the air and 
space planning and execution process. The AMD is normally organized into four functionally 
oriented teams: Airlift Control Team, Air Refueling Control Team, Air Mobility Control Team, 
and Aeromedical Evacuation Control Team (AECT). The AMD coordinates with the theater’s 
Deployment and Distribution Operations Center (DDOC) for validated cargo and passenger 
movement requirements. Due to the mission uniqueness of some theaters, you may find 
additional teams within an AMD, such as an aerial port control team or theater direct delivery 
cell. Team composition (e.g., numbers, specialties and skill levels) will normally be tailored to 
unique mission demands. All AMD teams integrate their activities to deliver mobility effects 
in support of the COMAFFOR/JFACC objectives. 
3.6.3.  AE Control Team. The AECT is one of four teams assigned to the Geographic 
AOC/AMD and is responsible to the AMD Chief and AOC Director for intra-theater AE 
operational planning, tasking, and mission execution. Once a validated patient movement 
request (PMR) is received, the AECT coordinates and integrates theater airlift and AE assets 
to meet AE movement requirements, tasks the appropriate airlift wings through the Airlift 
Control Team (ALCT) and air tasking order (ATO), and passes mission information to the 
PMRC. This team also coordinates with the 618 AOC (TACC) to integrate inter-theater AE 
missions and requirements into the theater AE plan. AECT members require an in-depth 
knowledge of AE specific regulations, to include operations, aircrew management, aircraft 
configuration, and aircraft systems. However, current qualification as an AECM is not 
required. 
14 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
3.7.  Air Expeditionary Forces. 
3.7.1.  Air Expeditionary Wing. When the size and scope of the operation warrants establishing 
an AEW, AE forces will be aligned as part of the Air Expeditionary Group (AEG) under the 
total AEW construct. AE standardization/evaluation will be integrated with similar group-level 
functions. 
3.7.2.  Air Expeditionary Group (AEG). When the size and scope of the operation warrants a 
minimal footprint, a smaller AEG may be deployed instead of the larger AEW. AE elements 
will then be aligned as part of the Air Expeditionary Squadron under the total AEG construct. 
3.7.3.  Expeditionary AE Squadron (EAES). The EAES is assigned to an AEW and operations 
group. The deployed UTC (FFQCC) integrates into AEW operations with the senior ranking 
officer designated as the EAES/CC on G-series orders. 
3.7.3.1.  The AE Command Squadron (AECS), (FFQCC). Provides command of assigned 
AE Forces. The AECS can deploy in advance of other AE UTCs to establish the support 
required for AE forces and establishment of a theater aeromedical evacuation system 
(TAES). The AECS will advise Wing and Operations Group commanders, as well as other 
appropriate personnel/agencies on AE CONOPS, doctrine, capabilities, and requirements. 
This UTC provides procedural guidance, technical guidance and management oversight 
for assigned, attached, and transiting AE elements. The AE Operations Team (FFQNT), 
AE Manpower Augmentation Team (FFQCM), AE Liaison Team (FFQLL) or AE 
Communications Team (FFQCR) UTCs may augment the AECS as required. The AECS 
deploys with the AE Command Squadron equipment package (FFQC1) UTC. 
3.8.  Clinical Oversight. 
3.8.1.  The Joint Force Surgeon is appointed by the JFC to serve as the theater or JTF special 
staff officer responsible for establishing, monitoring, or evaluating joint force health service 
support (reference JP 4-02). The JFS is responsible for coordinating and integrating health 
service support within the AOR as well as coordinating intra-theater patient movement support 
to the Joint Task Force Commander (JTF/CC). The JFS should appoint a theater Medical 
Director who is responsible for the quality of patient movement and clinical care provided 
within the AOR. 
3.8.2.  The Air Force Forces (AFFOR) Surgeon is the designated medical advisor to the 
COMAFFOR on all Air Force specific health services support resources, including health 
surveillance, risk assessment, and other Force Health Protection (FHP) issues. The AFFOR 
Surgeon provides professional oversight for deployed Air Force medical units, writes 
supporting CONOPS, and coordinates with HQ AMC/SG to establish clinical policies for AE, 
supported CCMD, and other Component Commands. 
3.8.3.  The theater Validating Flight Surgeon (VFS) works with the PMRC and complies with 
DOD and Service-specific medical licensing requirements. The VFS must have the appropriate 
knowledge base and experience sufficient to ensure proper medical care during transport, as 
well as the ability to provide medical direction during transport for all patient types served by 
the patient movement system. The theater VFS must ensure compliance with applicable 
accepted practice standards for air and ground patient movement. Medical direction can be 
transferred from the theater VFS to a physician traveling with patients as a Medical Attendant 
(MA) or to an En Route Critical Care (ERCC) physician. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
15 
3.8.4.  En Route Critical Care Director. During major contingency operations the CCMD may 
establish a theater ERCC Director. In coordination with HQ AMC/SGK (Command Surgeon 
En Route Medical Care Division), the HQ AF/SG CCATT consultant will nominate a qualified 
member for the position from a list of candidates to be maintained by the consultant. Generally, 
the theater ERCC Director will be assigned to the AFFOR/SG staff. They will serve as an 
advisor to CCMD/SG and AFFOR/SG for the development, utilization, and optimization of a 
theater-wide ERC capability including utilization of UTC FFCCT and other special ERC 
capabilities, such as Tactical Critical Care Evacuation Teams (TCCET), Acute Lung Rescue 
Teams (ALRT), and other special and coalition medical critical care air transport assets. 
3.8.5.  In accordance with (IAW) AFI 48-307V2, En Route Critical Care, the EAES 
commander will appoint a unit ERCC director for management and oversight of all assigned 
ERCC teams, and to serve as ERCC-liaison for the AE command section. The ERCC director 
appointment will be assigned to a physician who may be of lesser rank but with greater ERCC 
experience. The ERCC director will be responsible for managing each of the ERCC teams 
assigned to the squadron, establishing the rotational schedule, coordinating with the Director 
of Operations (DO), reviewing clinical processes, liaising with local MTFs to establish 
processes for ERCC team clinical sustainment, and all other team issues that may arise. The 
ERCC director reports directly to the AE commander and is integrated into the AE unit 
executive leadership structure at the equivalent level of the DO and the Chief Nurse. 
16 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
Chapter 4 
OPERATIONS 
4.1.  AE Across the Range of Military Operations.  HQ AMC is charged with the responsibility 
to operate the common-user Air Force AE system and has been given the overall responsibility as 
the AE lead command for the Air Force to manage and operate the inter-theater and AE sub-
systems, and provide the AE elements and the planning assistance to the theater of operations, in 
intermediate supporting theaters or in CONUS. 
4.2.  Steady-State/Peacetime Engagement and Crisis Response. 
4.2.1.  Theaters will validate patient movement mission requirements through the existing 
theater unified command cargo/passenger annual validation process. Patients traveling as 
passengers in a Temporary Duty (TDY) status must be validated as clinically able to do so by 
the TPMRC/VFS and granted duty passenger priority. Associated costs with the use of seats 
on military lift by patients, MAs, and AE assets will be outlined in appropriate DOD 
Instructions (DODI) and joint publications. 
4.2.2.  Patients requiring in-flight medical care but not supported by the organic AE system, 
may be moved via other Service assets or civilian air ambulance (CAA). Outpatients and 
eligible beneficiaries needing air transportation, but not requiring in-flight care, can be moved 
by commercial airline travel, contract airlift, duty passenger travel, or in a space available 
status in the DOD transportation system, as validated by the PMRC. 
4.2.3.  AE Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA). DSCA is support provided by U.S. 
Federal military forces, National Guard forces performing duty, DOD civilians, DOD contract 
personnel, and DOD component assets, in response to requests for assistance from civil 
authorities for special events, domestic emergencies, designated law enforcement support, and 
other domestic activities. Support provided by National Guard forces performing duty is 
considered DSCA, but is conducted as a state-directed action, also known as civil support. 
Requests for health support during disasters in the U.S. will normally be initiated by 
Department of Health and Human Services through submission of a request for assistance or 
mission assignment. Requests typically flow from the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) to the Joint Director of Military Support and are processed forward to the 
Secretary of Defense for approval. 
4.2.3.1.  The Air Force AE system supports patient evacuations accomplished through the 
National Disaster Medical System (NDMS). USTRANSCOM is the authority that 
validates the requirement to support civilian authorities with Director of Aerial Port of 
Embarkation (APOE), FEMA, and the NDMS. Once validated, HQ AMC and 618 AOC 
(TACC) are the lead operational authority (LOA) for AE planning, coordinating, and, when 
directed, executing DSCA support. HQ AMC also provides trained AE coordinating 
officers and coordinating elements for DSCA from existing active and reserve component 
forces in execution of the National Response Framework (NRF) in CONUS. AE assets 
required will depend on the size and scope dictated by the disaster or contingency and may 
be supported by in-place AE infrastructure or the deployment of AE assets to the disaster 
area. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
17 
4.2.3.2.  ANG AE assets, as part of their state’s Emergency Management Plan (EMP), may 
be mobilized and deployed/employed in a state activated status prior to federalization. 
4.2.3.3.  HQ AMC plays a key role in response efforts by providing specifically trained AE 
personnel, planners, and support staff. With proper authorization, AE personnel may be 
used to support local efforts at command and control centers, staging at existing airports, 
and/or AE liaisons at medical treatment facilities preparing patients for transport. 
4.3.  Deterrence and Contingency Operations.  AE forces are incremental and can be built from 
a small liaison team to a fully operations Theater Aeromedical Evacuation System (TAES). The 
initial, expeditionary, AE assets that can deploy far forward, are mobile, and support the various 
medical ground units from all user services. 
4.3.1.  During support of operations, AE employs its full capability, to include staging, 
AECMs, ERCC specialty teams, and integrated communications. During wartime, AE includes 
the movement of military casualties from forward airfields to more capable facilities, and if 
required, on to definitive care facilities. The AE system may be tasked to transport injured/ill 
special operations forces, provide support for noncombatant evacuation operations (NEO), 
and/or evacuate injured/ill repatriated U.S. or allied prisoners of war (POW). The AE system 
may also be tasked to evacuate injured/ill enemy prisoners of war (EPW), detainees, and 
coalition forces. AE also includes transportation of patients to and from redistribution centers 
within CONUS and in support of Humanitarian Assistance or Disaster Response (HA/DR) 
operations. 
4.4.  CONUS Contingency AE.  AE missions returning patients from the theater deliver the 
patients to CONUS staging facilities that will be strategically placed to support defined airlift 
routes. Additional medical assets may be required to support patients at organic en route hubs, and 
redistribution of casualties in CONUS may also involve a network of commercial airlift.  For 
example, critical care and mental health patients will not be held in the staging facility (En Route 
Patient Staging System [ERPSS]), as these facilities are not staffed with providers to treat these 
types of patients.  See AFTTP 3-42.57 for further information on ERPSS capabilities. 
4.5.  AE Interface with the Joint Community.  Movement of patients between points within a 
GCC’s AOR is referred to as intra-theater, while movement of patients between the GCC’s AOR 
to points outside the AOR is referred to as inter-theater (refer to para. 3.5.2.). PMRCs are 
responsible for identifying MTF capability, regulating patients to the closest capable facility, 
clinically validating, and coordinating with Service components for patient evacuation. This 
process aligns the patient to an MTF with the necessary capabilities and bed availability. PMRs 
are validated then passed to the service air component for execution. The airlift operations centers 
may request other destinations due to availability of airlift and routes to support AE, but these 
decisions will be coordinated with the PMRC prior to execution. 
4.5.1.  PM and Roles of Care. 
4.5.1.1.  POI/illness to Role 2. Generally, the component commands are responsible for 
evacuation of the casualty from POI/illness to Role 1 or Role 2 MTFs via dedicated, 
designated, or opportune ground or air transportation. This is accomplished through a 
combination of litter carries, manual carries, ground transportation, and limited air (rotary- 
or fixed-wing) transport. The USA generally employs dedicated MEDEVAC assets such 
as ground and air ambulances. The U.S. Navy (USN) normally relies on lifts of 
18 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
opportunity. The USMC has some dedicated ground evacuation and relies on designated 
air and other lifts of opportunity. If USAF assets are required, at this level, lifts of 
opportunity may be used. 
4.5.1.2.  Role 2 to Role 3. Movement within and from Role 2 capabilities is normally a 
Service component responsibility; however, some operations may require evacuation by 
the joint common-user PM system. For example, the USMC has no organic theater 
hospitalization (Role 3) capabilities, and this care is provided by the USN. The USN does 
not have dedicated or designated evacuation vehicles with the capacity to go forward and 
retrieve patients from units with Role 1 and Role 2 capabilities to evacuate them to the 
Role 3 capability. For this reason, the USA will be tasked with providing PM support for 
ship-to-shore and shore-to-ship evacuation. For environments beyond the capabilities of 
rotary-wing PM support, joint common-user resources may be required. Requests to the 
joint common-user PM system are submitted to the PMRC for coordination. 
4.5.1.3.  Role 3 to Role 4. If a patient cannot be returned to duty within the limits of the 
theater PM policy, the originating Role 3 MTF will normally request PM to a Role 4 MTF 
for more definitive care and disposition. The originating MTF will submit a PM request, 
in accordance with prescribed procedures, using the USTRANSCOM Regulating and 
Command and Control (C2) Evacuation System (TRAC2ES). PM requests are submitted 
to the appropriate PMRC (or Joint Patient Movement Regulating Center [JPMRC] if one 
is established). When operating within an area that already has an established TPMRC, the 
TPMRC maintains overall visibility for theater USAF PM operations, but the JPMRC is 
responsible for USAF PM operations within the OA and coordinates with the TPMRC for 
USAF intra-theater PM and the Global PMRC (GPMRC) for inter-theater PM. The JPMRC 
identifies intra-theater PM requirements through the theater AOC/JAOC/AECT, and the 
TPMRC coordinates with the theater air mobility operations control center to identify 
theater airlift assets available, and with the GPMRC to identify inter-theater PM 
requirements through USTRANSCOM’s Joint Mobility Control Group. 
4.5.1.4.  Role 1/Role 2 to Role 4. Some joint operations may present unique situations and 
considerations where a theater hospitalization (Role 3) capability may not exist. Stabilized 
casualties may enter the joint common-user PM system near the Role 1 capability and be 
evacuated directly to a Role 4 capability in another theater. In such cases, the component 
command medical regulating officer will submit a PM request to the JPMRC. 
4.6.  AE Interface with the Patient Movement Process. 
4.6.1.  Patient Movement Request (PMR). The PM process begins when the health care unit 
sends a PMR to the servicing PMRC. The PMRC evaluates the request for eligibility, necessity, 
and acuity. PMRs are then submitted to the PMRC by the Service medical patient 
administration section in each facility and will be communicated through TRAC2ES for patient 
in-transit visibility (ITV). Operational tracking of AE missions will be through standard air 
mobility automated systems. 
4.6.2.  Patient Movement Requirements Centers (PMRCs) - Global, Theater, and Joint. The 
PMRC is a joint activity responsible for PM management and coordination. The PMRC 
validates patient movement requests, regulates patients to appropriate medical facilities for 
continued medical care, and determines the mode of transportation (air, sea, and ground). 
PMRCs should exist at the joint level as an element of the joint movement center, to ensure 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
19 
visibility of joint assets for PM lift options. PMRC staffing includes nurses as Patient 
Movement Clinical Coordinators (PMCC), and one or more theater VFSs who are assigned or 
delegated by the theater Command Surgeon to work with the PMCC. Theater VFSs provide 
physician medical direction and clinical oversight of PM validation, transfer/en route care 
planning, and en route care during AE. The PMCCs provide clinical and administrative 
expertise during validation and may be delegated validation authority by the VFS for routine 
patients using approved algorithms. 
4.6.3.  Patient Movement Clinical Coordinator (PMCC). A PMCC is a nurse assigned to a 
PMRC who provides clinical and aerospace oversight for clinical validation of patient 
movement requests. The senior PMCC ensures standardized training requirements for PMRC 
personnel are met, conducts case reviews, implements PMRC clinical practice guidelines for 
personnel (nurses and medical technicians) performing clinical regulation/validation in the 
PMRC, and defines the scope of practice for clearing patients by PMCC’s when an originating 
MTF flight surgeon is not available. 
4.6.4.  Patient Administration Director (Clerk/Officer) (PAD) or the Medical Regulating 
Officer (MRO) is responsible for contacting the PMRC with PM requirements and submitting 
patient movement data. This individual manages patient numbers and bed classifications, 
determines availability of facility-based resources to assist with the movement of patients, and 
coordinates the use of those assets. The PAD/MRO serves as the liaison between the referring 
physician and medical staff, the patient, the PMRC, and is responsible for inputting patient 
data for PMRs. 
4.7.  Mission Coordination and Operational Considerations. 
4.7.1.  Management of AECMs is essential for efficient system operations. Crew management 
and tasking includes support to all AECMs, CCATTs, ERCC teams, and other supporting 
medical augmentees. AECMs will comply with appropriate crew duty days, and alert 
procedures IAW governing AFIs. AECMs normally fall under the direct control of an AEOT 
(FFQNT) responsible for crew management. AECMs that remain overnight (RON) from 
deployed C2 structure will align with the Pilot in Command (PIC) for reporting location, 
availability, and follow on mission requirements. AE crew management will be integrated into 
local mobility ATOs, airlift stage management operations, and crew alerting processes. AE 
crews will be alerted following the same process as other flight crews for that location and/or 
IAW AFI 11-2AEV3, Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) Operations Procedures. It is the medical 
crew director’s (MCD) responsibility to contact the en route controlling C2 authority, to 
determine return mission/follow-on mission availability. AE equipment will be considered part 
of aircrew equipment. 
4.7.2.  DOD Definitions for Theater Evacuation Precedence. Times begin once a patient is 
validated. The timeframes are expected response time, but can be negotiated with the lift 
agency. In contingencies, follow OPORD Annex Q, “Medical Support,” for specific directives 
and joint operations priorities. 
4.7.3.  Mission Coordination. Once the mission has been identified, the AOC/AMD/618 AOC 
(TACC) will task mobility wings for airlift, crews, and augmentation assets (equipment and/or 
specialized medical personnel support). The AE cell/AECT will pass mission information 
including aircraft arrival and departure times through the Wing, servicing PMRC, and the 
20 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
originating and destination health care facilities. The AE cell/AECT will track missions and 
all operational aspects of the patient movement. 
4.7.4.  Unregulated Casualties. When security or operational conditions exist which require 
casualties to be moved immediately, patients may be moved without prior PMRC validation. 
In this case, the originating AE component will attempt to alert the AECT of the departure of 
AE missions with unregulated patients. AECT will then notify the PMRC, and a VFS will be 
identified to clear the patients for movement within the AE environment. 
4.7.5.  Patient Considerations and Preparation for AE. Proper clinical preparation for AE 
increases the likelihood of successful patient outcomes. Originating physicians and staff, in 
consultation with local flight medicine personnel, should begin preparatory actions by 
outlining the care plan the patient requires en route to the PMRC. For patient preparation and 
considerations for flight, please reference AFI 48-307V1. 
4.7.6.  Management of Patient Weapons. During contingency operations, weapons will be 
returned to the user Service, or in special situations, will be cleared and transported IAW 
aircraft regulations and the Geneva Conventions. 
4.7.7.  Patient Essentials. Regulated patients will be transported with their medical records or 
evacuation battle tag, valuables, personal effects, and medical essential items IAW established 
regulations. Medical equipment, referred to as patient movement items (PMI)/PMI in-kind, 
and supplies required to support patients during evacuation should be coordinated in advance. 
While in theater, patients should also be transported with their personal protective equipment 
readily accessible to them, and any chemical warfare/biological warfare (CW/BW) gear will 
be available as applicable. 
4.7.8.  ERC Medical Equipment. ERC medical equipment and supplies will be standardized 
throughout the system and will comply with air-worthiness requirements. This will ensure 
rapid medical equipment exchanges and forward re-supply. For further guidance on ERC and 
patient preparation please refer to AFI 48-307V1, AFI 10-2909, Aeromedical Evacuation 
Equipment Standards, the current Aeromedical Evacuation Non-PMI (Non-Standard) Medical 
Equipment Compendium available on the A3VM “Master Library Verified AE” SharePoint 
site (see Attachment 2, “Additional Resources” for URL), and/or current theater/local medical 
equipment guidance. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
21 
Chapter 5 
PLANNING AND SUPPORT CONSIDERATIONS 
5.1.  CONOPS. 
5.1.1.  Each Service component is responsible for all functions of the Service-specific PM 
system, including operational guidance, intelligence, medical direction, logistics, and 
communications support. From initial injury to definitive care, the treatment and evacuation of 
patients from the battlefield transcends many levels of communication and coordination, 
routinely crossing Service boundaries. Thorough knowledge of the PM systems will expedite 
casualty care and save lives. Patient evacuation must be planned to support any operation. JFCs 
should integrate and coordinate the use of evacuation resources toward the common purpose 
of reducing mortality while maintaining the medical continuum of care. It is, therefore, critical 
that each Service component properly plan to operate its portion of the overall PM system. 
Planning ensures a coordinated effort in providing timely and effective PM, which involves 
determining theater movement estimates, identifying frequency channel lift requirements, and 
regulating appropriate MTFs. All available forms of transportation must be considered within 
the constraints of the tactical situation and the details of patient handling. 
5.1.2.  The evacuation of casualties within the joint special mission arena can be a particularly 
complex issue since these forces often operate in small, widely dispersed teams, and in 
locations not easily accessible. Flexibility and sensitivity to the particular needs of the special 
mission community, both clinically and administratively, is important to consider in 
determining how to best support their AE requirements. The special mission forces are 
responsible for care and evacuation of casualties from the forward location to the secure airfield 
where AE forces will assume responsibility for the casualties, freeing special mission medical 
assets to return to forward locations. The AE planner must understand the need for limited 
resources and yet versatile, flexible capability to support special missions. 
5.1.3.  Evacuation plans should integrate and include ground ambulances, rotary- and fixed-
wing evacuation platforms, crew, and attendants. Plans should also include en route (ground 
and air) critical care teams for transporting patients with critical care needs, Service staging or 
holding MTFs, Service liaisons, appropriate Service operational requirements, C2 elements, 
equipment, and handling to include reconstitution of PMI/PMI in-kind. 
5.1.4.  The USA is responsible for providing medical rotary-wing support for ship-to-shore 
and shore-to-ship patient transport operations in support of PM requirements for the hospital 
ships. USA MEDEVAC is conducted as an area support mission including support to all 
Services operating within the assigned grid coordinates. Requests for the USA evacuation 
support under the auspices of its area support role from the USN and/or USMC will be 
prioritized by urgency and not by Service of origin. Plans should reflect this arrangement when 
it supports the commander’s CONOPS. If the USA MEDEVAC assets are not available or are 
not deployed as part of the operation, the USN and USMC have responsibility for ship-to-shore 
and shore-to-ship movement of patients. 
5.1.5.  The USAF is responsible for providing AE. The AE system provides time-sensitive 
mission-critical ERC to patients to and between MTFs. Care is delivered by USAF medical 
personnel specially trained to operate within a global AE system. The USAF’s AE capability 
22 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
comprises a system including ground and airborne forces providing and supporting medical 
care within MTFs, patient staging platforms, and in the air. AE personnel and ERCC Teams 
execute PM predominately on mobility air force aircraft, as well as aboard Sister Service, 
contracted, and international partner airframes. AE forces operate as far forward as air 
operations occur in support of the full range of military operations, humanitarian assistance 
(HA), and disaster response. The system is designed to be flexible to enable it to operate across 
the spectrum of potential scenarios and interface with joint forces, multi-national forces, and 
Special Operations Forces (SOF). 
5.2.  Movement of Casualties.  The movement of U.S./coalition casualties is accomplished by all 
available forms of transportation including ships, ground vehicles, and rotary- and fixed-wing 
assets. Although evacuation of patients through first responder and forward resuscitation is 
normally a Service responsibility, AE units may, depending upon the operational situation, 
evacuate casualties from forward airfields when requested to do so by the combatant commander. 
AE planning requires the integration of Joint and Service specific capabilities into the theater or 
JFC's CONOPS. Health service support considerations include the tactical mission and situation, 
enemy and friendly capabilities, threat assessment and the theater evacuation policy. AE planners 
are an integral part of the airlift planning team and should build appropriate AE support into the 
en route structure. The AE planner should interface with medical planners to ensure appropriate 
medical capability along airlift routes. 
5.2.1.  The process of patient categorization determines how quickly a patient will be 
evacuated within the PM system and has a significant impact on lift assets. PM priorities are 
derived from situational factors or individual patient clinical conditions. Refer to OPORD 
Annex Q, “Adaptive Planning and Execution” (APEX) for directives and specific joint 
operations priorities. Senior medical personnel, or if no medical personnel are present, the 
senior military personnel, recommend the precedence for PM to the PMRC based on each 
patient’s condition/status. Patient condition/status may be upgraded or downgraded at each 
succeeding role of care. Timeframes to provide evacuation assets on-site ready to conduct PM 
begin once a PM request is passed to the responsible PMRC. The tables in JP 4-02, Appendix 
G, “Service Component Transportation and Medical Evacuation Assets,” identify these 
timeframe objectives within which the PM system should respond. 
5.3.  PM Evacuation Precedence Categories and Movement Precedence.  Due to the nature of 
AE operations and the use of mobility airframes to provide this expeditionary patient movement 
asset, the AE precedence categories are different than those utilized for other patient movement 
options. Refer to JP 4-02, Appendix A, “Patient Movement,” and AFI 48-307V1, paragraph 3.5. 
for complete descriptions. AE patient movement categories: 
5.3.1.  Priority I—Urgent (stabilizing/unstable). Patients requiring immediate PM to save life, 
limb, eyesight, or prevent serious complications of injury or existing medical condition. 
Immediate action shall be taken to obtain suitable transportation to meet patient requirements. 
Timeline for movement is as soon as possible and will be validated by supporting PMRC 
Theater Validating Flight Surgeon (TVFS). PM should commence within 12 hours of a 
validated patient movement request. Note: It may be necessary, in some cases, to skip a medical 
capability echelon and evacuate a patient directly to a greater medical capability echelon in 
order to increase the survivability of the patient. To do so, the patient must be stable enough to 
endure the additional flight time to the greater medical capability. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
23 
5.3.2.  Priority II—Priority (stabilizing/stabilized). Patients requiring expedient PM and 
prompt medical intervention when care is unavailable locally and medical condition could 
deteriorate; PM is required sooner than the next scheduled channel AE mission. Timeline for 
movement will be defined by the competent medical authority and validated by the supporting 
PMRC TVFS. PM typically commences within 24 hours of a validated patient movement 
request, but may be modified based on the patient's requirement for next clinical intervention. 
5.3.3.  Priority III—Routine (stabilized/stable). Patients requiring timely PM, can tolerate 
longer periods except when clinical requirements/or status change warrants higher movement 
precedence. Timeline for movement will be defined by competent medical authority and 
validated by the supporting PMRC TVFS. PM typically commences within 7 days of a 
validated patient movement request, but may be modified based on the patient's requirement 
for next clinical intervention. 
5.4.  AE Planning Factors.  The 618 AOC (TACC) AE division is divided into two planning 
branches and one execution branch. 
5.4.1.  AE Current Operations Planning Branch is responsible for the planning and scheduling 
of inter-theater and CONUS intra-theater AE missions. This is done in coordination with the 
GCC OPLAN requirements and the PMRC. This branch develops and establishes the AE 
theater airlift plans and frequency requirements. Lastly, it coordinates with the Joint 
Operational Support Airlift Center (JOSAC), and CAA companies, if necessary, for airlift 
support to conduct the AE mission. 
5.4.2.  AE Mission Support Branch is responsible for mission support and current  contingency 
plan operations. In coordination with the AE Current Operations Planning Branch, they 
develop inter-theater and CONUS AE execution plans in support of military and civil 
operations. Furthermore, they define and validate USTRANSCOM AE forces and equipment 
requirements to include G-series Unit Line Numbers (ULN) and coordinate with MAJCOMs, 
CCMDs, and federal and state agencies to support the AE mission. This branch is 
USTRANSCOM’s tasking authority for AE personnel and ERCC Teams for HQ AMC AE 
missions. 
5.4.3.  AE Current Operations Branch is responsible for centralized C2 of HQ AMC-gained 
inter-theater and CONUS AE missions. It balances the medical requirements of the mission 
with the operational airlift requirements, receives urgent and priority patient movement 
requirements from PMRCs and AECTs, and is responsible for developing short-notice airlift 
plans to meet these time critical patient requirements. 
5.5.  Theater Evacuation Policy.  The theater evacuation policy states the maximum number of 
days (hospitalization and convalescence) a patient may be held within the theater for treatment, 
prior to being evacuated, and who in the opinion of appropriate medical authority, cannot be 
returned to duty (RTD) within the prescribed period are evacuated as soon as practical to the next 
appropriate level of care for further treatment. The evacuation policy is determined by guidance 
from the Secretary of Defense in coordination with the GCC and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff. Upon execution and during operations, the theater evacuation policy may be adjusted based 
on various factors including the number of definitive care beds available in or deployable to the 
theater. The evacuation policy does not imply a patient must be held in the theater for the entire 
period identified in the theater evacuation policy. 
24 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
5.6.  Airframe Considerations.  It is critical to identify the availability of various airlift platforms 
appropriate for the volume and clinical requirements of the patients to be moved. The AECT is the 
authority for USAF mobility airlift capabilities and system interface. 
5.6.1.  Organic Mobility Lift and In-System Select (ISS). Organic aircraft are Service airframe 
assets obtained primarily through mission tasking or through en route diversion and mission 
reprioritization for AE use. Organic airlift is the major airframe component of expeditionary 
AE. Requirements can vary from obtaining a seat to move ambulatory patients to procuring a 
pallet position to move litter patients, or an entire aircraft to perform a single mission or routine 
frequency mission. The AOC has visibility of airlift operating in the AOR and may divert a 
mission conducting an ISS to support the patient request. The AECT coordinates the AE 
tasking to ensure all assets are available to support the ISS mission. 
5.7.  Airfield Capability.  The mobility en route structure and proximity of medical facilities to 
the airfield determine AE laydown. Proposed on load, en route, and offload airfields must be able 
to support the operation. The AECT coordinates with airlift operators to determine operating 
restrictions such as quiet hours, low light operations, approach restrictions, refueling restrictions, 
time to enplane and deplane patients, etc. Mission planners must consider flight line security, 
secured launch, and PHOENIX Raven requirements for designated airfield locations. 
5.8.  Uncertain or Hostile Operational Environment.  The requirements for Security Forces to 
support aircraft during AE missions must be considered in the airlift planning process. The 
PHOENIX Raven program provides specially trained Security Forces personnel to protect HQ 
AMC aircraft and will be included on all AE missions to locations designated “Ravens required.”  
AECMs will carry weapons, when appropriate and authorized, to protect themselves and their 
patients. 
5.9.  Base Operating Support (BOS) and Operations Support.  AE operations depend on 
integration with the Line of the Air Force (LAF) to provide BOS and Senior Airfield Authority 
synchronization. This support is needed for AE units attached to specific locations, as well as en 
route transient support during patient evacuation through the system, and must be coordinated with 
appropriate agencies prior to deployment. These requirements include, but are not limited to, 
transportation (including patient transportation), messing and other consumable materials, water, 
fuels, cryogenics, liquid oxygen (LOX) and other gases (obtained from fuels or on a contract basis), 
billeting, latrines, showers, laundry, and security. 
5.9.1.  Additional requirements include: alternate generator support (primary generator 
capability is included in allowance standards), fire protection, vehicle maintenance support, 
vehicle decontamination, maintenance and logistics, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE), 
contracting, 
supportive 
information/communications 
systems 
maintenance, 
waste 
management, and personnel decontamination. AE UTC mission capabilities statements 
(MISCAP) must be reviewed to determine specific requirements especially in regard to 
communication and transportation support. 
5.10.  Biomedical Equipment Technician (BMET) Support.  Equipment repair is essential in 
the theater for routine maintenance and minor repair. Deployed MTFs (and potentially civilian and 
multinational facilities) can support AE equipment repair and maintenance in steady state, but not 
surge periods. Therefore, the AE planner should insert AE BMET capability into airlift hubs and 
align with local MTFs to ensure AE equipment is processed to meet mission requirements. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
25 
5.11.  Communications.  A responsive communications system is essential to the conduct of PM. 
The JFC should establish a system which integrates the available capabilities of the PM system, 
synchronizes its application, and prepares to employ air, land, and sea forces to achieve PM 
objectives. This system should also support the operational requirements of medical information 
management as it relates to patient accounting and reporting, medical regulating, and patient in-
transit visibility. 
5.11.1.  Service component commanders are responsible for C2 of their respective 
transportation agencies involved in joint PM. However, the JFS is responsible for establishing 
a joint PM CONOPS and identifying communications requirements necessary to integrate the 
functional aspects of the joint PM, medical regulating, and evacuation protocols out of the 
theater. This may include defining the requirements needed for intra-theater and inter-theater 
support. Effective PM during joint operations will require a closely coordinated and mutually 
supportive effort of all participating forces carefully balancing mission requirements while 
contributing to the total theater PM effort. 
5.11.2.  The JFC may provide detailed theater communications plans or assign theater 
communication management responsibilities to a single-Service component for specific 
functions during joint PM operations. Early identification of a theater’s communications 
system requirements for evacuation connectivity is essential. At a minimum, medical 
communications in support of PM must provide reliable, real-time and, when possible, 
redundant communications within a theater, and from the theater to the U.S. They must also 
provide a link between the most forward point where the patient enters the PM system, long 
haul communication to PMRC, and each role in the medical system to the destination MTF or 
medical element. 
5.11.3.  The degree of success of PM operations is a function of the availability of reliable 
communications over dedicated and interoperable systems. Planners must identify frequencies 
common between Service component support forces assigned a PM mission. If no 
commonality exists, the JFC develops a theater plan ensuring adequate communications 
support to all Service components. All frequency requirements for organic equipment must be 
coordinated with the GCC’s planning staff. 
5.11.4.  Short-range radio communications should be provided by each Service component to 
ensure communication between MTFs, evacuation vehicles, boats, aircraft, and operational C2. 
5.11.5.  When available, theater-based, long-range communications will be provided by 
satellite communications, and defense voice services, such as the Defense Switched Network 
(DSN), Defense Information Systems Network, and the Defense Messaging System. Satellite 
communications offering access to commercial telephones or point-to-point systems should be 
used when available. 
5.11.6.  TRAC2ES provides a responsive communications system essential to the conduct of 
PM. TRAC2ES is a web-based system, which maximizes the Internet while maintaining and 
protecting privacy and troop strength information. TRAC2ES provides global support 
throughout the full operational medical continuum for fixed and deployable MTFs and 
PMRCs. 
5.12.  Ground Transportation.  Most AE units deploy with integral transportation capability 
specifically designated for the movement of assigned equipment packages with limited capability 
26 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
to transport AE personnel. AE planners should ensure proper aircraft support equipment is 
available at the airfield (i.e., stanchion and loading systems). The staging facility, or MTF if there 
is no staging facility, is responsible for patient transport to and from the aircraft. Medical planners 
should determine the availability of other Service ambulances and vehicles and establish contracts 
or obtain HN support if required. 
5.13.  Determining Crew Support.  It is imperative that planners ensure crew resources are 
allocated appropriately, and a designated replacement schedule for AE crews departing the theater 
must be established. Consideration must be given to length of crew duty day, augmentation of 
basic crews, required crew rest period, as well as ensuring transportation and billeting 
arrangements. 
5.14.  AE Interface with Special Mission Forces.  Some special mission operations and 
expeditionary forward deployed operations, such as SOF, Marine expeditionary forces, and 
combat search and rescue (CSAR), do not possess organic conventional AE capability and must 
identify requirements for and obtain, conventional AE support at forward airbases. 
5.15.  AE UTC Employment Concept.  AE UTCs optimize use of limited airlift during the initial 
phases of an operation without sacrificing capability. Some of the equipment UTCs are portable 
to ensure AE can be employed in the very early stages of a contingency. The concept is to employ 
an immediate, versatile, and flexible AE presence to respond to the needs of the deployed forces. 
Personnel will need to be multifunctional and capable of performing additional duties. After the 
initial buildup, the planners can augment the deployed teams with more manpower and equipment 
(augmentation packages), as required, to support more intense or ongoing operations. 
5.16.  AE UTC Selection and Utilization.  AE UTCs are developed based on the building-block 
principle allowing planners to select specific UTCs capable of supporting the range of steady state, 
contingency operations, or OPLANs. The UTCs are divided into three major categories: command 
and control, patient care, and support. Designed to meet highly mobile and austere conditions, and 
as workload changes are projected to change, the UTC packages may be deployed or redeployed 
in small increments or combined with other UTCs to provide capability as needed. 
5.16.1.  Command and Control UTCs: AECT and AECS, are outlined in Chapter 3 and 
integrated with airlift operations. 
5.16.2.  Patient Care UTCs. 
5.16.2.1.  Aeromedical Evacuation Crew (FFQDE). AECMs are explicitly trained to 
perform in-flight patient care on opportune fixed-wing aircraft using medical equipment 
certified for use by airworthiness testing standards. AECMs are knowledgeable about the 
stresses of flight, aerospace physiology, basic trauma skills, patient safety, and are experts 
on the interface between aircraft systems and medical equipment to meet clinical care 
requirements. Crews can also augment any ground UTC requiring additional clinical 
management or mission support capability as assigned by the C2 commander when AE 
mission support is not impacted. The basic AECM team may be tailored by the designated 
chief nurse to support the patient’s needs and requirements. During execution of the AE 
mission, AECMs and ERCC Teams are directed by AOCs in control of the airlift mission 
(i.e., AECT/AMD for theater or 618 AOC (TACC) for inter-theater airlift. Planners must 
task the FFQDM (AE In-flight kit equipment package) to support each FFQDE (AE 
Crew)). 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
27 
5.16.2.2.  Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT), (FFCCT). CCATTs provide 
advanced, specialty medical capability to evacuate (in conjunction with AECMs) critically 
ill or injured patients requiring continuous stabilization or advanced care during transport 
to the next level of care. Prior to transport, the role of the CCATT is to assess and prepare 
the critically ill patient for movement. The CCATT should normally originate with a 
patient from a nearby/co-located medical treatment facility (MTF) located at a theater AE 
hub. CCATTs may also be transported from an AE hub to forward locations to pick up 
patients for transport to higher levels of care. The CCATT will accompany the patient from 
the originating facility to the aircraft and continue to monitor and intervene during in-flight 
operations as required. When in-flight, the CCATT works with and receives mission 
operational direction from the MCD. The mission operational management authority and 
responsibility remains with MCD. 
5.16.2.2.1.  In conjunction with equipment package, FFCC4, the CCATT provides care 
for a maximum patient load of up to three high-acuity (e.g., ventilated) patients, or up 
to six lower-acuity (e.g., non-ventilated) stabilized patients.  Introduction of untreated 
or unstable patients will degrade CCATT capability and deplete resources accordingly 
unless augmented. Consultation with the PMRC validating flight surgeon (VFS) and/or 
the Theater En Route Critical Care Director will be required prior to mission execution 
to determine the ideal provider mix to transport neonatal and pediatric critical patients. 
5.16.2.2.2.  When deployed, teams may be assigned to a deployed expeditionary AE 
unit or another en route care patient movement element. When assigned to any en route 
care element (AE or other), the unit commander will appoint a unit CCATT Director 
for management and oversight of all assigned CCATT teams and to serve as CCATT 
liaison for the unit command section. The CCATT Director will be a physician – that 
physician may be of lesser rank but greater CCATT experience from the pool of 
CCATTs assigned. The CCATT Director will be responsible for managing each of the 
CCATTs assigned to the squadron, establishing the rotational schedule, coordinating 
with the Director of Operations (DO), reviewing clinical processes, liaison with local 
ground medical treatment facility to establish processes for CCATT clinical 
sustainment, and all other team issues that may arise. The CCATT Director reports 
directly to the unit commander and is integrated into the unit executive leadership 
structure at the equivalent level of the DO and the Chief Nurse at AE units. Reference 
AFTTP 3-42.51 for further guidance. 
5.16.2.3.  En Route Care Expeditionary Support Package (FFEC1). When AECMs and 
ERCC Teams are deployed to forward locations early in an operation or to support Global 
Mobility CONOPS, an equipment package, including tents, generators, and a vehicle 
(when tasked), may be used to support their BOS requirements. 
5.16.2.4.  En Route Patient Staging System-10 (ERPSS-10), (FFEPS). The ERPSS-10 
provides rapid response patient staging and limited holding capability to support 
humanitarian and civil disaster response operations and major theater wars (MTWs). 
ERPSS-10 is normally physically located to afford ready access to active taxiways/runways 
as feasible. ERPSS-10 is designed to provide forward support with the smallest footprint, 
which includes a capability to receive patients, provide supportive patient care, and meet 
administrative requirements on the ground while awaiting AE. Additionally, the ERPSS-
10 equipment package contains tentage which is used to provide BOS for ERPSS-10 
28 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
personnel. The communications capability assigned to the ERPSS-10 may be integrated 
into the tanker/airlift control element or operations cell. For deliberate planning, patient 
throughput is 40 patients per 24 hours. The team should be able to sustain this tempo for 
72 hours before augmentation is required. The 40-patient throughput is based on aircraft 
constraints in a theater of war. Additional throughput may be achieved with increased 
aircraft availability and personnel augmentation. This UTC can be deployed on aircraft 
pallets (463L) or as rolling stock if UTC UFMVE, High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled 
Vehicle (HMMWV) is also tasked. The ERPSS-10 cannot be considered mobile unless two 
UFMVE UTCs are tasked to support each FFPS1 (ERPSS-10 equipment package). 
5.16.2.5.  En Route Patient Staging System-50/100 (ERPSS-50/100), (FFPPS, FFFPS, 
FFHPS). ERPSS-50/100 may be used at major inter-theater hubs to support the full 
spectrum of contingency operations and Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) operations 
including humanitarian relief operations (HUMRO) and homeland defense missions. 
ERPSS-50/100 interfaces with the AE mission and falls under the C2 of the medical group 
commander. Reference AFTTP 3-42.57 for more ERPSS information. Planners must task 
FFPS1, FFPS2, FFPS3, FFPS4, FFPS7, FFPS8 ERPSS equipment packages to support this 
capability. 
5.16.3.  Support UTCs. 
5.16.3.1.  AE Liaison Team (AELT), (FFQLL). The AELT provides support between the 
forward user and the AE system in the form of operational and clinical interface. This 
interface may occur at locations without other AF personnel such as far forward bases and 
onboard ships. An AELT may be geographically separated from other AF assets. The FN 
provides clinical expertise to facilitate clinical support for administrative, aircraft specific 
requirements, equipment requirements, and clinical implications of altitude and stresses of 
flight. The FN on the team assists the medical unit in preparing AE patients for flight. The 
Medical Service Corps (MSC) Officer is responsible for providing guidance and assisting 
with coordination on patient movement processes and acts as a coordinator between user 
and AE operations. The MSC Officer assists in patient manifesting if TRAC2ES is not 
available. They normally work with the patient regulating component or the PAD section 
of a user Service. Planners must task FFQCR and FFQL1 equipment package to support 
the AELT. This is a rolling stock UTC and one HMMWV (UTC UFMVE) must be tasked. 
5.16.3.2.  AE Operations Team (AEOT), (FFQNT)/AEOT Augmentation Team, 
(FFQCM). The AEOT provides operations and mission management support to airfields 
supporting AE. It provides supervision and crew management for all assigned, attached or 
transiting AECMs and CCATT crews. It performs AECM and CCATT scheduling. The 
AEOT also coordinates AECM and CCATT requirements for AFE, billeting, food service, 
transportation, finance, and administration. In addition, this team assists AE crews with 
aircraft configuration for AE missions, manages AE supplies and equipment, supports AE 
communications, and assists in enplaning/deplaning as required. It may coordinate with 
MAF flight crew stage management teams at strategic AE hubs and CONUS reception 
airfields. This team can support up to 10 AE crews and 4 CCATTs and can manage at least 
6 mission launches/recoveries in a 24-hour time frame. Planners must task FFQCR and 
FFQN1 (AEOT equipment package) to support each FFQNT. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
29 
5.16.3.3.  Patient Movement Items (PMI) teams are composed of FFLG1 (medical 
logistics) and FFBMM (biomedical equipment repair teams). The FFLG1 logistics teams 
provide operational PMI management capability. They can be deployed to support PMI 
centers, cells, and tracking nodes. Their duties consist of storage, reception, inventory 
control, issue, palletizing, shipping, recycling and identification of equipment 
requirements. The FFBMM equipment repair teams provide regional maintenance and 
repair capability for equipment in PMI Centers and/or cells. The FFBM1 biomedical 
maintenance equipment package must be tasked to support the FFBMM team. Duties 
include scheduling and completing scheduled preventative maintenance and calibration, 
repair and maintenance services, and updating the PMI Asset Tracking System and Defense 
Medical Logistics Support System (if available). Planners may task FFBM1 to support 
initial stand-up of a PMI cell, or to increase throughput. For further guidance refer to JP 4-
02, AFTTP 3-42.8, Expeditionary Medical Logistics (EML) System, AFI 41-201, 
Managing Clinical Engineering, AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, AFI 10-2909, 
Aeromedical Evacuation Equipment Standards, the current “Aeromedical Evacuation Non-
PMI (Non-Standard) Medical Equipment Compendium” available on the A3VM “Master 
Library Verified AE” SharePoint site (see Attachment 2, “Additional Resources” for URL), 
and applicable OPLANS. 
5.16.3.4.  AE Communications Team (FFQCR). This team provides UTC voice and data 
communication equipment that is survivable, interoperable, flexible, mobile, and secure 
separated into 3 specific areas: 1) Initial contingency operations using organic 
communication devices; 2) Sustainment contingency operations coordinating with user 
service to provide Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network/ Secret Internet 
Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET/SIPRNET), local area network (LAN) lines, web 
based applications, computer and software support; and 3) Homeland/natural disaster 
responses (CONUS only), for which cellular phones have been added to enhance organic 
communications. Equipment UTCs embedded with communication equipment are: 
FFQC1, FFQL1, FFPS1, and FFQN1. 
5.16.3.5.  AFE Aeromedical Evacuation Support (9ALAE). These personnel may deploy 
with UTCs FFQDE and FFQNT. AFE personnel support primary aeromedical aircrew 
stage operations to maintain AECM AFE. They provide scheduled and unscheduled 
aircrew AFE inspections (e.g. survival vests, survival radios, aircrew body armor, quick 
don masks, life preserver units, and aircrew Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and 
Nuclear (CBRN) equipment). 
5.17.  AE Mission Support Equipment. 
5.17.1.  SPECTRUM Series. The SPECTRUM Series patient care module is routinely used on 
operational support aircraft to support urgent, single patient requirements (including infant 
isolette). The aircraft usually requires modification to accept the SPECTRUM Series. The litter 
system has self-contained oxygen, vacuum, compressed air, electrical power and an overhead 
light. Reference Chapter 7 in AFMAN 11-2AEV3 Addenda-A, Aeromedical Evacuation 
Operations Configuration/Mission Planning. 
5.17.2.  Litter Station Augmentation Set (LSAS). The LSAS is intended for patient loads that 
exceed the C-17's organic litter carrying capability. Although a mission may not require a full 
36 litter positions (9 organic litters to the aircraft and 27 litters within the set), the LSAS is a 
30 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
kit and the full complement of components (ISU-90 CONEX) will be transported on the 
mission. This ensures the equipment set is kept together for all stages of employment. 
Reference LSAS CONOPS available on the A3VM “Master Library Verified AE” SharePoint 
site (see Attachment 2, “Additional Resources” for URL). 
5.17.3.  Stanchion Litter System (SLS). The SLS increases and enhances operational 
capabilities for patient movement on multiple airframes during steady-state operations, times 
of war and military operations other than war. The SLS is a stand-alone stationary, non-
mechanical structure that attaches to the existing aircraft attachment hard points and consists 
of three basic components, the vertical support stanchions, lower base frame, and the litter 
platforms. They are centrally managed by HQ AMC/SG. Reference operations and 
troubleshooting guides which are available on the A3VM “Master Library Verified AE” and/or 
“Approved Publications – AE” SharePoint areas (see Attachment 2, “Additional Resources” 
for URL). 
5.17.4.  High Deck Patient Loading Platform (HDPLP). The HDPLP is a special purpose 
vehicle (UFM849 UTC) with capability to transport, lift, and lower patients with disabilities 
or special needs onto and off of high-deck, fixed-wing aircraft (i.e. KC-135, KC-10, etc.). It 
has an enclosed, environmentally controlled cabin, and is scissors-hoist lifted. It has self-
sustaining power; can be connected to shore power; and possesses redundant safety measures 
to include lighting, equipment/floor/wall tie-downs, non-slips floors, emergency egress 
capable, fall protection, etc. 
5.17.5.  Patient Loading System (PLS). The PLS is a specialized mobile ramp deployed to 
facilitate enplaning/deplaning patients on KC-135/KC-10 aircraft. If the PLS/High Deck 
Patient Loading Platform (HDPLP) is not available, request a Hi-lift truck, Halverson Lift, or 
Tunner (K-Loader), for patient enplaning/deplaning. This equipment is normally operated by 
aeromedical staging personnel at strategic hubs to support KC-135/KC-10 aircraft during day-
to-day peacetime and wartime operations at forward locations. 
5.17.6.  KC-135 Portable Cargo Light System. The KC- 135 Portable Cargo Light System is 
an LED lighting system that consists of 12 light bars (each 3ft long) that are clamped to 
overhead support bars to provide light from the galley to the auxiliary power unit (APU). The 
lighting system covers 75 percent of the cargo bay. There are 10 along the length of the cargo 
bay and 2 additional over the cargo door. Reference “KC-135 Light System Manual” which is 
available on the A3VM “Master Library Verified AE” SharePoint area (see Attachment 2, 
“Additional Resources” for URL). 
5.18.  AE Equipment and Supplies. 
5.18.1.  Sustained medical logistics support for AE operations is essential. Reach back and 
resupply operations ensure sustainment of theater AE forces. Maintenance and refilling of 
liquid oxygen (LOX) containers requires qualified personnel. LOX refilling agreements should 
be coordinated by the EAES commander with the respective supporting operations group. 
Other items of interest are the shipment of in-flight medical kits and interface with prime 
vendor suppliers to fulfill deferred procurement items. Planners should identify base and 
medical logistics supply hub requirements and request additional manpower/equipment needed 
to support AE operations (i.e., additional LOX support personnel and refill/maintenance 
capability at airlift hubs). The initial point of entry into the logistics chain will be at the attached 
wing level. Medical supplies may be supported by the closest MTF medical logistics function. 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
31 
In large operations or contingencies, AE operations may be required to interface with Theater 
Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM). Requirements for Class VIII medical 
supplies/equipment will be processed through the established theater system. 
5.18.2.  Responsibilities. 
5.18.2.1.  HQ AMC is the lead command for AE and provides continuous review and 
oversight of the AE system thus ensuring the AE force is appropriately supplied and 
equipped to perform the mission. HQ AMC/SG and HQ AMC A3/10 (Directorate of 
Operations, Strategic Deterrence, and Nuclear Integration) personnel will work together 
closely to ensure the viability of all assigned UTCs. 
5.18.2.2.  AE Equipment. The in-flight and theater AE environment exposes medical 
equipment to unique stresses. Equipment should be able to withstand environmental 
extremes of temperature and humidity, aircraft vibration, altitude and rapid decompression 
of the aircraft, and electromagnetic interference to and from the aircraft. Interface with the 
aircraft should not pose any safety hazards to the patients or aircrew. Equipment items are 
tested and certified as airworthy and compatible with Air Force mobility airlift. 
5.18.2.3.  The Air Force Aeronautical Systems Center Human Systems Division 
(ASC/WNU) at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, is responsible for the airworthiness 
evaluation process for new or proposed medical devices for AE and coordinating with HQ 
AMC/SG. All medical equipment utilized for AE must be certified by ASC/WNU as safe 
for use in AF aircraft. 
5.19.  Patient Movement Items (PMI). 
5.19.1.  The system provides a seamless in-transit patient and/or equipment management 
process from initial patient entry into AE system to the patient’s final destination and recycles 
back. The PMI system is comprised of the following UTCs:  FFQP4 – Deployable Patient 
Movement Item Asset Tracking System, FFQP5 Spare Parts package, FFQP6 Shipping 
Supplies package, and FFQP3 – notional UTC built based on specific patient throughput 
requirements. These UTCs deploy in support of the AE system and are collocated with AE at 
key interface points to provide initial AE operational capability, to sustain AE operations and 
support equipment recycles. Equipment will be managed, supplied and resupplied through the 
PMI centers, cells, nodes, and joint medical logistics organizations. It is the responsibility of 
the originating health care facility to provide the PMI in-kind required to support the patient 
during evacuation. Services should outfit sets, kits, and assemblages with PMI in-kind medical 
equipment (same, make, model) and air-certified for use in deployable platforms. In a 
contingency, the PMI cell may be collocated with the TLAMM, normally at a robust air and 
logistics hub. 
5.19.2.  USTRANSCOM is the PMI system manager. HQ AMC/SGXLM (HQ AMC 
Command Surgeon/Medical Readiness/Logistics and MEFPAK) is the program execution 
office. All Services will fund the original initial quantities of approved PMI in-kind assets. 
PMI in-kind assets are defined as the exact medical equipment by type and model approved 
for patient movement. All Services will maintain initial quantities of approved PMI in-kind 
equipment in their medical assemblages, kits/sets/outfits, table of allowance, or allowance 
standards. This will ensure standardization and the PMI programs ability to seamlessly support 
patient movement. This capability is critical to enabling the PMI system to properly 
32 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
recycle/replace medical equipment in medical assemblages and to ensure their designed 
operational capability is not diminished due to equipment shortfalls. HQ AMC/SGXM 
manages and receives Defense Health Program funds to support DOD OPLAN patient 
movement requirements and is responsible for life cycle management of equipment assets in 
the PMI centers. 
DOROTHY A. HOGG, 
Lieutenant General, USAF, NC 
Surgeon General 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
33 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
AFI 10-2909, Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) Equipment Standards, 13 March 2019 
AFI 11-2AEV3, Aeromedical Evacuations (AE) Operations Procedures, 15 August 2014 
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 28 April 2017 
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 25 June 2013 
AFI 41-201, Managing Clinical Engineering Programs, 10 October 2017 
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 04 January 2019 
AFI 48-307V1, En Route Care and Aeromedical Evacuation Medical Operations, 09 January 
2017 
AFI 48-307V2, En Route Critical Care, 10 January 2017 
AFMAN 11-2AEV3 Addenda-A, Aeromedical Evacuation Operations Configuration/Mission 
Planning, 19 October 2018 
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008 
AFPAM 10-1403, Air Mobility Planning Factors, 24 October 2018 
AFTTP 3-42.51, Critical Care Air Transport Team (CCATT), 07 April 2015 
AFTTP 3-42.57, En Route Patient Staging System, 10 August 2016 
Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, 05 April 2016 
Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-30, Command and Control, 07 November 2014 
DODI 4515.13, Air Transportation Eligibility, 31 August 2018 
JP 3-0, Joint Operations, 17 January 2017 
JP 3-17, Air Mobility Operations, 05 February 2019 
JP 4-02, Joint Health Services, 11 December 2017 
Secretary of the Air Force, (10 U.S.C. § 9013) 
The Privacy Act of 1974, (5 U.S.C. § 552a) 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
A2/AD—Anti-Access/Area Denial 
A3/10—Directorate of Operations, Strategic Deterrence, and Nuclear Integration 
AD—Area Denial 
34 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
ADVON—Advanced Echelon 
AE—Aeromedical Evacuation 
AECM—Aeromedical Evacuation Crewmember 
AECS—Aeromedical Evacuation Command Squadron 
AECT—Aeromedical Evacuation control team 
AEG—Air Expeditionary Group 
AELT—Aeromedical Evacuation Liaison Team 
AEOT—Aeromedical Evacuation Operations Team 
AESC—Aeromedical Evacuation Support Cell 
AET—Aeromedical Evacuation Technician 
AEW—Air Expeditionary Wing 
AFD—Air Force Doctrine 
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment 
AFFOR—Air Force Forces 
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures 
ALCT—Airlift Control Team 
ALRT—Acute Lung Rescue Team 
HQ AMC—Headquarters Air Mobility Command 
AMD—Air Mobility Division 
ANG—Air National Guard 
AOC—Air Operations Center 
APEX—Adaptive Planning and Execution 
APOE—Aeromedical Evacuation Arial Port of Embarkation 
APU—Auxiliary Power Unit 
ARC—Air Reserve Component 
ASC/WNU—Air Force Aeronautical Systems Center Human Systems Division 
AST—Austere Surgical Team 
ATO—Air Tasking Order 
BMET—Biomedical Equipment Technician 
BOS—Base Operating Support 
35 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
BPLAN—Base plan 
C2—Command and Control 
CAA—Civilian Air Ambulance 
CASEVAC—Casualty Evacuation 
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
CC—Commander 
CCATT—Critical Care Air Transport Team 
CCMD—Combatant Command 
COMAFFOR—Commander of Air Force Forces 
CONOPS—Concept of Operations 
CONPLAN—Concept Plan 
CONUS—Continental United States 
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue 
CW/BW—Chemical Warfare/Biological Warfare 
DDOC—Deployment and Distribution Operations Center 
DEPORD—Deployment order 
DIRLAUTH—Direct Liaison Authority 
DIRMOBFOR—Director of Mobility Forces 
DO—Director of Operations 
DOD—Department of Defense 
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
DSN—Defense Switched Network 
EAEF—Expeditionary Aeromedical Evacuation Flight 
EAES—Expeditionary Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron 
EMP—Emergency Management Plan 
EPW—Enemy Prisoners of War 
ERC—En Route Care 
ERCC—En Route Critical Care 
ERCCS—En Route Casualty Care System 
ERPSS—En Route Patient Staging System 
EXORD—Execute order 
36 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
FAM—Functional Area Manager 
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency 
FHA—Foreign Humanitarian Assistance 
FHP—Force Health Protection 
FN—Flight Nurse 
GCC—Geographic Combatant Commander 
GPMRC—Global Patient Movement Regulating Center 
HA/DR—Humanitarian Assistance or Disaster Response 
HDPLP—High Deck Patient Loading Platform 
HMMWV—High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicle 
HN—Host Nation 
HQ AMC/SGXM—HQ AMC Command Surgeon/Medical Readiness/Logistics and MEFPAK 
HUMRO—Humanitarian Relief Operations 
IAW—In Accordance With 
ISS—In-System Select 
ITV—In-Transit Visibility 
JAOC—Joint Air Operations Center 
JFACC—Joint Force Air Component Commander 
JFC—Joint Force Commander 
JFS—Joint Force Surgeon 
JOA—Joint Operations Area 
JP—Joint Publication 
JTF—Joint Task Force 
LAF—Line of the Air Force 
LAN—Local Area Network 
LOA—Lead Operational Authority 
LOX—Liquid Oxygen 
LSAS—Litter Station Augmentation Set 
MA—Medical Attendant 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
MCD—Medical Crew Director 
MEDEVAC—Medical Evacuation 
37 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
MEFPAK—Manpower & Equipment Force Packaging 
MISCAP—Mission Capabilities Statement 
MODE—Medical Operations in Denied Environments 
MRA—MEFPAK Responsible Agency 
MRO—Medical Regulating Officer 
MSC—Medical Service Corps 
MTF—Military Treatment Facility 
NDMS—National Disaster Medical System 
NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operations 
NIPRNET—Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network 
NRF—National Response Framework 
OA—Operational Area 
OPCON—Operational Control 
OPLAN—Operation Plan 
OPORD—Operation Order 
PACAF—United States Pacific Air Forces 
PAD—Patient Administration Director (Clerk/Officer) 
PIC—Pilot in Command 
PLS—Patient Loading System 
PM—Patient Movement 
PMCC—Patient Movement Clinical Coordinator 
PMI—Patient Movement Item 
PMRC—Patient Movement Requirements Center 
POI—Point Of Injury 
POW—Prisoner Of War 
RON—Remain Overnight 
RTD—Returned To Duty 
SG—Command Surgeon/Surgeon General 
HQ AMC/SGK—HQ AMC, Command Surgeon, En Route Medical Care Division 
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network 
SOF—Special Operations Forces 
TACC—Tanker/Airlift Control Center 
38 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
TACON—Tactical Control 
TAES—Theater Aeromedical Evacuation System 
TCCET—Tactical Critical Care Evacuation Team 
TDY—Temporary Duty 
TLAMM—Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel 
TPMRC—United States Transportation Command Patient Movement Requirements Center 
TTP—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures 
TVFS—Theater Validating Flight Surgeon 
ULN—Unit Line Number 
USA—United States Army 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe 
USC—United States Code 
USMC—United States Marine Corps 
USN—United States Navy 
USNORTHCOM—United States Northern Command 
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command 
UTC—Unit Type Code 
VFS—Validating Flight Surgeon 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
39 
Attachment 2 
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES 
Aeromedical Evacuation References 
AFI 10-2912, Aeromedical Evacuation Readiness Programs, 20 June 2018 
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 07 December 2006 
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 20 September 2012 
AFI 11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization and Evaluation Program, 06 December 2018 
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 10 August 2016 
AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 10 October 2017 
AFI 11-301V2, Management and Configuration Requirements for Aircrew Flight Equipment 
(AFE), 20 December 2013 
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010 
AFI 13-207-O, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking), 05 February 2019 
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 01 November 2018 
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012 
AFI 25-201, Intra-Services, Intra-Agency, and Inter-Agency, Support Agreements Procedures, 
18 October 2013 
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 05 July 2017 
AFI 31-117, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 02 February 2016 
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 17 March 2015 
AFI 44-108, Infection Prevention and Control Program, 11 December 2014 
AFI 48-307V3, En Route Care Documentation, 12 April 2016 
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 22 June 2018 
AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting (OPREP), 18 June 2018 
AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield 
Explosive (CBRNE) Environment, 06 July 2011 
AFMAN 11-2AEV1, Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Training, 04 January 2019 
AFMAN 11-2AEV2, Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 25 October 2018 
AFMAN 11-421, Aviation Resource Management, 12 September 2018 
AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, 13 July 2017 
AFMAN 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 04 January 2019 
AFPD 10-29, Worldwide Aeromedical Evacuation Operations, 13 February 2019 
AFPD 10-3, Operational Utilization of the Air Reserve Component Forces, 29 November 2017 
AFTTP 3-2.18, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Tactical Radios, 16 June 
2017 
AFTTP 3-2.67, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Defense Support of Civil 
Authorities (DSCA), 13 October 2015 
AFTTP 3-2.68, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Airfield Opening, 01 June 
2015 
AFTTP 3-4, Airman's Manual, 11 January 2019 
AFTTP 3-42.3, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Health Service Support in 
Chemical, Biological, and Radiological, and Nuclear Environments, 01 March 2016 
AFTTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation, 01 November 2003 
AFTTP 3-42.6, USAF Medical Support for Special Operations Forces, 09 January 2012 
AFTTP 3-42.8, Expeditionary Medical Logistics (EML) System, 16 November 2018 
40 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
Air Force Doctrine Annex 3-0, Operations and Planning, 04 November 2016 
AMCI 10-202V1, Presentation of Air Mobility Forces, 08 February 2017 
DTR 4500.9-R-Part II, Cargo Movement, 01 May 2014 
JP 3-11, Operations in Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Radiological (CBRN) Environments, 
29 October 2018 
Aeromedical Evacuation Resources 
847 Central (AMC/A3V, Mobility AF lead command, change recommendations to aircrew 
publications): https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/12797/SitePages/847%20Central.aspx 
Aeromedical Evacuation Medical Equipment Compendium, 14 March 2019, and Medical 
Equipment Manuals may be found at the HQ AMC, Aircrew Standardization & Evaluation, 
Aeromedical Airlift (A3VM) SharePoint site. 
AEF Online Personal Deployment Preparedness Tool (PDPT) (e-deployment folder, e-readiness 
tracker [After signing in, click "PDPT," populates information from ADLS, ASIMS, MILPDS]): 
https://aefonline.afpc.randolph.af.mil/personalprep.aspx 
AF Combat Support Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) Repository: 
https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10070/default.aspx 
AF Doctrine: http://www.doctrine.af.mil/ 
AF E-Publishing: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ 
AF Medical Readiness Decision Support System (MRDSS-Ultra): 
https://mrdss1.gunter.af.mil/ultra4/login 
AF Medical Service Knowledge Exchange Nurse Corps Consultants (including AE): 
https://kx.afms.mil/kj/kx2/AFNCConsultantsCorner/Pages/home.aspx 
AF Medical Service Knowledge Exchange: https://kx2.afms.mil/Pages/default.aspx 
AF Reporting Instruction Tool (AFRIT): 
https://aefonline.afpc.randolph.af.mil/AFRIT/Afrit.aspx 
Aviation/Airman Safety Action Program (ASAP): https://asap.safety.af.mil/ 
Air & Space Expeditionary Forces Online (AEF Online): 
https://aefonline.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ 
Airman's Manual: https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10070/Airman_Manual/SitePages/Home.aspx 
DOD Dictionary and Terminology Repository (Military Acronym Finder): 
https://jdeis.js.mil/jdeis/index.jsp?pindex=4 
DOD Directives Division (DOD Publications and Forms): http://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/ 
Education & Training Course Announcements (ETCA) (*use email certificate* May have to go 
to IE Options, Content, clear SSL State): https://app10-
eis.aetc.af.mil/etca/SitePages/Home.aspx 
HQ AMC, Aircrew Standardization & Evaluation, Aeromedical Airlift (A3VM) 
“Master_Library Verified AE” SharePoint: 
https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/12679/aircrew%20pubs%20library/forms/better.aspx  
HQ AMC, Aircrew Standardization & Evaluation, MAF Aircrew Information Site, FCIF/SII 
Library (Select "…" to filter for AE, SII, etc.): 
https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10370/SitePages/Home.aspx 
HQ AMC, Command Surgeon, Manpower & Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) 
SharePoint: https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/12956/default.aspx 
Joint Chiefs of Staff Joint Doctrine Publications: http://www.jcs.mil/Doctrine/Joint-Doctine-
Pubs/ 
AFTTP3-42.5  23 JULY 2019 
41 
Joint Electronic Library Plus (JEL+): https://jdeis.js.mil/jdeis/ 
Joint Knowledge Online: http://jko.jten.mil/ 
Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (MTTPS) Publications on the Air, Land, Sea 
Application Center website: http://www.alsa.mil/mttps/ 
Safe to Fly Matrix: https://www.wpafb.af.mil/stf/ 
Safe to Fly SharePoint: https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10567/sitepages/home.aspx 
TRANSCOM Regulating and Command & Control Evacuation System (TRAC2ES): 
https://www.trac2es.ustranscom.mil/ 
USAF Individual Medical Readiness (IMR) Status: https://imr.afms.mil/imr/myIMR.aspx 
