 
 
 
BY ORDER OF THE 
  
 
         AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND 
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
 
 
 
  PROCEDURES 3-42.6 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e- 
publishing.af.mil 
RELEASIBILITY:  There are no restrictions on the release of this publication 
OPR: AFSOC/SGX  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Certified by: AFSOC/SG 
Supersedes:  AFTTP 3-42.6, 9 Jan 2012                                                             Col Matthew P. Hanson) 
 
 
   Pages: 37 
 
The Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-42 series of publications is the 
primary reference for medical combat support capability.  This document, AFTTP 3-42.6, provides 
an overview of special operations and the United States Air Force (USAF) medical tactics, 
techniques, and procedures (TTP) that support all SOF and missions.  It describes the organization, 
capabilities, planning, logistics, training, and operations of the AFSOC Medical Forces and primarily 
pertains to deployed operations.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in 
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFI 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.  Refer 
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility 
(OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  Route AF IMT 847 
through the appropriate chain of command and parent Major Command (MAJCOM). 
 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been significantly revised and must be completely reviewed.  This revision 
updates and clarifies information throughout the document including roles, responsibilities, and 
relationships at all levels.  It updates United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) 
special operations forces (SOF) operational priorities and core tasks and revises the Air Force 
Special Operations Command (AFSOC) medical unit type code (UTC) narratives.  It expands and 
clarifies medical doctrine and policy as applied to operational employment of AFSOC medical assets 
at home station and deployed.  It expands the medical logistics, operational planning, and 
communications sections. 
 
APPLICATION:  This publication applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel including 
Air Reserve Components (ARC).  This document is authoritative but not directive. 
 
SCOPE:  Special operations missions are conducted by specially organized, trained and equipped 
military forces to achieve military, political, economic, or psychological objectives by 
unconventional means in, to include but not limited to hostile, denied, or politically sensitive areas.  
Whether operating from a contingency location (CL), cooperative security location, enduring 
location (EL), forward operating site (FOS), initial CL, or main operating base, AFSOC medical 
assets provide medical Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS), trauma care and casualty evacuation 
 
22 JUNE 2023 
 
Tactical Doctrine 
USAF MEDICAL SUPPORT FOR 
SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
2 
 
 
(CASEVAC) during operational missions for Air Force Special Operations Forces (AFSOF) and 
other SOF.  AFSOC medical teams and designated line units support SOF by providing both mission 
operations support as well as SOF base operations support.  These capabilities include 
comprehensive medical mission planning, Global Health Engagement, small unit care, damage 
control resuscitation, damage control surgery, advanced trauma life support, CASEVAC, prolonged 
casualty care, as well as more routine preventive and acute medical care for deployed SOF 
personnel. 
 
 
 
 
MATTHEW P. HANSON, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS 
Command Surgeon, Air Force Special Operations Command 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
3 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1 – SOF OVERVIEW   
1.1.  Overview 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
1.2.  SOF Truths 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
1.3.  SOF Core Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
Chapter 2 – ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  USSOCOM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
2.2.  Air Force Special Operations Command 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
2.3.  AFSOC Medical Preparedness and Force Protection 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
2.4.  AFSOC Medical System 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
Chapter 3 – COMMAND AND CONTROL 
3.1.  Deployed Lines of Communication (LOC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
3.2.  AFSOC UTC Assignment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
3.3.  Medical Command and Control  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
3.4.  Concept of Medical Oversight  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 
 
Chapter 4 – EMPLOYMENT OF MEDICAL SUPPORT FOR SOF 
4.1.  Deployment Concept and Capabilities  
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 
4.2.  Advantages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
4.3.  Core Concepts of AFSOC Medicine in the Battlespace  
 
 
 
 
19 
4.4.  Casualty and Disease Management in SOF Operations  
 
 
 
 
19 
 
Chapter 5 – PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS 
5.1.  SOF Operational Environment Medical Planning Considerations 
 
 
 
22 
5.2.  AFSOC Interface with Medical Contingency Ground Support Systems 
 
 
22 
5.3.  Interface with Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) System  
 
 
 
 
23 
5.4.  Mission Planning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
Chapter 6 – MEDICAL LOGISTICS AND WAR RESERVE MATERIAL (WRM) 
6.1.  Medical Logistics Support for Special Operations UTCs and Medical WRM  
 
25 
6.2.  Medical Supplies and Equipment Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
6.3.  Integration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 
6.4.  Ground Transportation Consideration  
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
6.5.  Additional support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
28 
 
Chapter 7 – TRAINING 
7.1.  Objective  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
7.2.  Responsibilities  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
7.3.  Medical Training Requirements  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 
7.4.  Credentials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
7.5.  Recruitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
Chapter 8 – COMMUNICATIONS 
8.1.  Medical Communications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
8.2.  Line-of-sight Communications  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
4 
 
 
8.3.  Beyond Line-of-sight Communications  
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
8.4.  Internet Access  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
 
Chapter 9 – OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
9.1.  ORM Utilization  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
9.2.  Risk Mitigation  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
9.3.  Operational Risk Mitigation Training  
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
 
Attachment 1 – GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
References 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
Abbreviations and Acronyms  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
Forms  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
Terms  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
5 
 
 
Chapter 1 
 
SOF OVERVIEW  
 
1.1.  Overview.  Special operations are military operations conducted by specially trained, equipped, 
and organized Department of Defense forces against strategic or tactical targets in pursuit of national 
military, political, economic, or psychological objectives.  These operations are often conducted in 
hostile, denied, or politically sensitive environments and are characterized by one or more of the 
following elements: time sensitive, clandestine, low visibility, conducted with and/or through 
indigenous forces, requiring regional expertise, and/or a high degree of risk.  Special Operations 
Forces are those active and reserve component forces of the services designated by the Secretary of 
Defense (SecDef) and specifically organized, trained, and equipped to conduct and support special 
operations. 
 
1.2.  SOF Truths.  The SOF truths guide day-to-day activities as well as strategic planning and 
vision. 
 
• Humans Are More Important Than Hardware 
• SOF Cannot Be Mass Produced 
• Competent SOF Cannot Be Created After Emergencies Occur 
• Quality Is Better Than Quantity 
• Most Special Operations Require non-SOF Assistance 
 
1.3.  SOF Core Activities.  USSOCOM organizes, trains, and equips SOF for special operations 
core activities and other such activities as may be specified by the President and/or SecDef.  These 
core activities reflect the collective capabilities of all joint SOF rather than those of any one Service 
or unit.  It is important to note that core activities are mutually supporting and interoperable in most 
cases.  Rarely, if ever, will a special operation occur that does not support, include, or impact 
multiple core activities.  
 
• Direct action (DA) 
• Special reconnaissance (SR) 
• Counter-proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction 
• Counterterrorism (CT) 
• Unconventional warfare  
• Foreign internal defense (FID) 
• Security force assistance  
• Hostage rescue and recovery 
• Counterinsurgency  
• Foreign humanitarian assistance 
• Military information support operations 
• Civil affairs operations 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
6 
 
 
Chapter 2 
 
ORGANIZATIONS, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
2.1.  United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM). 
 
2.1.1.  USSOCOM Mission.  USSOCOM develops, and employs the world’s finest SOF to conduct 
global special operations and activities as part of the Joint Force, in concert with the U.S. 
Government Interagency, Allies, and Partners, to support persistent, networked, and distributed 
combatant command operations and campaigns against state and non-state actors all to protect and 
advance U.S. policies and objectives. 
 
2.1.2.  Headquarters.  USSOCOM is headquartered at MacDill AFB, Florida, and is one of the 
combatant commands directly responsible to the President and SecDef. As a functional combatant 
command, USSOCOM has been given lead responsibility with waging war on terrorism and plays a 
supporting role in Great Power Competition.  Its duties in connection with this responsibility include 
planning, directing, and executing special operations.  USSOCOM also provides SOF to support the 
Combatant Commander’s theater security cooperation plans.  The designation of Special Operations 
as a Major Force Program makes USSOCOM unique among the combatant commands in that it has 
service-like responsibilities to organize, train, and equip its forces for special operations missions. 
 
2.1.3.  Component Commands.  USSOCOM has four component commands and one sub-unified 
command: the US Army Special Operations Command (USASOC), Fort Bragg, North Carolina; the 
Naval Special Warfare Command (NAVSPECWARCOM), Coronado, California; the Air Force 
Special Operations Command (AFSOC), Hurlburt Field, Florida; the Marine Corps Forces Special 
Operations Command (MARSOC), Camp Lejeune, North Carolina and the sub-unified command 
Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), Fort Bragg, North Carolina. (see Figure 2.1.) 
 
Figure 2.1.  USSOCOM Component Commands 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
7 
 
 
2.1.4.  Theater Special Operations Commands (TSOCs).  TSOCs are sub-unified commands 
established within each combatant command (CCMD).  The function of the TSOC is to ensure that 
SOF is fully integrated into the combatant commanders (CCDR) collective security plans and 
contingency operations.  The TSOC commander plans and conducts joint special operations, 
ensuring that SOF capabilities are matched to mission requirements while advising component 
commanders in theater on the proper employment of SOF.  Additionally, TSOCs provide the core 
element for establishing a Joint Special Operations Task Force (JSOTF) or Special Operations Joint 
Task Force (SOJTF), a quick reaction command and control element that can respond immediately to 
regional emergencies.  There are joint service medical planners assigned to TSOCs.  The seven 
TSOCs supporting CCDRs worldwide are: Special Operations Command Central (SOCCENT), 
Special Operations Command Europe (SOCEUR), Special Operations Command Pacific (SOCPAC), 
Special Operations Command South (SOCSOUTH), Special Operations Command Korea 
(SOCKOR), Special Operations Command Africa (SOCAFRICA), and Special Operations 
Command U.S. Northern Command (SOCNORTH). 
 
2.2.  Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC). 
 
2.2.1.  AFSOC Mission.  AFSOC organizes, trains, and equips forces to conduct SO across the full 
range of military operations in support of joint force commanders and interagency partners, to meet 
theater and national objectives. 
 
2.2.2.  AFSOC Lead Component (LC) and Specified Responsibilities.  USSOCOM designates 
Service Components as lead for an activity as assigned in USSOCOM D 10-1.  Designation as LC is 
based on the recognition of subject matter expertise within the assigned activity. Below are the 
assigned special operations activities where AFSOC serves as the LC: 
 
• Operations of unmanned aircraft system and forces capable of supporting national and 
regional objectives 
• Fixed-wing and tilt-rotor mobility to include non-standard aviation 
• Rapid, global, specialized aerial refueling of aircraft to increase their range, endurance, and 
flexibility 
• SOF geospatial intelligence imagery processing, exploitation, and dissemination 
• Development and management of SOF Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 
Tactical Controller program TTPs and training course 
• Agile combat support of AF SOF in austere environment to ensure uninterrupted support to 
SOF 
• Role 2 Surgical Support to include medical support to standard and non-standard casualty 
evacuation 
 
2.2.3.  Headquarters.  AFSOC is headquartered at Hurlburt Field, Florida, and functions as both an 
Air Force MAJCOM and as the air component of USSOCOM.  As a MAJCOM, AFSOC retains 
Title 10 responsibilities to organize, train, equip, administer, and maintain special operations forces 
for worldwide deployment and assignment to unified commands.  As the air component of 
USSOCOM, AFSOC provides AFSOF to accomplish assigned special operations mission activities.  
Also, as the Air Force component, the AFSOC commander exercises command authority consistent 
with operational control (OPCON) over all Continental United States-based active and reserve 
AFSOF assets. 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
8 
 
 
2.2.4.  AFSOC Command Surgeon.  The AFSOC/SG functions as a MAJCOM/SG and as the air 
component surgeon to USSOCOM.  As a MAJCOM/SG, the AFSOC surgeon is responsible for 
establishing, coordinating, and sustaining a health care system for AFSOC personnel and for 
organizing, training, and equipping AFSOC medical forces for contingency medical support.  As the 
air component surgeon to USSOCOM, the AFSOC/SG plans execution of all Air Force medical 
support for AFSOF and serves as the principal Air Force medical service advisor to USSOCOM. 
 
2.2.5.  Organizational Structure.  AFSOC medical units and line units with medical responsibilities 
are currently organized into a Wing, Group, Squadron, and Flight configuration. 
 
2.2.5.1.  AFSOC Supported Units.  AFSOC provides leadership and oversight for the 1st Special 
Operations Wing (SOW), 24 SOW, and 492 SOW at Hurlburt Field, FL, the 27 SOW at Cannon 
AFB, NM, the 352 SOW at RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom, and the 353 SOW at Kadena AB, 
Japan.  The 352 and 353 SOWs are Primary Subordinate units to AFSOC/CC.  Additionally, AFSOC 
has Air Force Reserve Component (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units: the 137 SOW of 
the ANG at Will Rogers ANG base, Oklahoma City, OK, the 193 SOW of the Pennsylvania ANG at 
Harrisburg Airport, Middletown PA, and the 919 SOW of the AFRC at Duke Field, FL.  (see Figure 
2.2.) 
 
Figure 2.2.  AFSOC Command Structure 
  
 
2.2.5.2.  AFSOC Medical Groups.  AFSOC has two fixed health care facilities: the 1st Special 
Operations Medical Group (1 SOMDG), Hurlburt Field, Florida and the 27th Special Operations 
Medical Group (27 SOMDG), Cannon AFB, New Mexico.  These units operate outpatient clinics 
that offer primary care, aerospace medicine, optometry, pediatrics, health promotion, 
USAF HQ
Washington,  D.C.
AFSOC HQ
Hurlburt Field, FL
1 SOW
Hurlburt Field, FL
27 SOW
Cannon AFB, NM
24 SOW
Hurlburt Field, FL
352 SOW
RAF Mildenhall, UK
353 SOW
Kadena AB, Japan
492 SOW
Duke Field, FL
137 SOW
Will Rogers ANGB, OK
193 SOW
Middletown, PA
919 SOW
Duke Field, FL
USSOCOM HQ
MacDill AFB, FL
AFSOC 
Installations 
Tenant 
Wings 
Guard 
& Reserve 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
9 
 
 
bioenvironmental engineering, public health, physical therapy, behavioral health, women’s health, 
and dental services.  Their primary mission is to support the warfighter’s medical readiness 
requirements and beneficiary care. 
 
2.2.5.3.  Operations Support Medical (OSM) Flights.  OSM flight personnel are specifically 
trained and equipped, based on their assigned UTC, to support both the AFSOC flying mission as 
well as the medical support needs of deployed SOF units.  For specific in-garrison mission 
information, please reference AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special Operations.  
 
2.2.5.3.1.  As a Squadron Medical Element, OSM personnel fall under the command and control 
(C2) of Line of the Air Force Commanders of special operations units.  At home station, OSM 
personnel report to the Special Operations Support Squadron (SOSS) commander or Wing A-Staff 
(if outside continental United States), or as a Special Operations Forces Medical Element (SOFME) 
to flying squadron Commander if embedded in the aviation units.  While deployed, OSM personnel 
report through Special Operations Task Group (SOTG) and/or task force commanders to the TSOC 
to the CCDR.  AFSOC mission commanders maintain operational control of AFSOC medical 
personnel to support short notice and/or highly specialized missions and to ensure OSM personnel 
have the required training prior to being tasked to support such operations.  
 
2.2.5.3.2.  OSM flights can have a combination of flight surgeons, physician assistants, medical 
administrators, Independent Duty Medical Technicians (IDMT), public health and bioenvironmental 
engineering technicians, plans/operations officers, and organic medical logisticians.  OSM flights 
vary depending on location but may have several complimentary medical components. 
 
2.2.5.4.  Special Operations Surgical Team (SOST).  SOST is AFSOC's only Role 2 Light 
Maneuver capability.  These teams fall under the command and control of the 720th Operational 
Support Squadron (OSS) inside the 24 SOW.  While deployed, SOST personnel report through 
Special Operations Task Group (SOTG) and/or task force commanders to the TSOC to the CCDR.   
 
2.2.5.5.  Special Tactics (ST) Squadron Medics.  ST Medical Personnel fall under the command of 
the Special Tactics unit they are embedded in.  In-garrison, the ST medical element provides full-
spectrum medical care to members within the unit, to include acute care, Individual Medical 
Readiness, and Flight PHAs. 
 
2.3.  AFSOC Medical Preparedness and Force Protection. 
 
2.3.1.  Force Preparation.  The medical groups supporting AFSOC units, with the assistance of 
personnel in the OSM, provide critical support to the AFSOC mission by preparing the force for 
deployed operations.  SOF must be in a continual state of readiness to support minimal-notice 
tasking.  More explicit information is contained in AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special 
Operations. 
 
2.4.  AFSOC Medical System.  Special Operations Forces are required to operate in remote, austere, 
and/or far-forward environments, which may not be adequately supported by conventional medical 
personnel.  AFSOC/SG is tasked with providing a medical system that can provide health care to the 
supported SOF personnel who may be deployed in these environments.  The overall AFSOC medical 
system may be divided into the base medical groups, operational medics, and STS and pararescue 
specialist (PJ) assets.   
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
10 
 
 
 
2.4.1.  Home Station Health Support.  Home station health care supports the AFSOC mission 
through programs that promote force fitness and performance, preventive and acute care, and 
managed health care for active-duty personnel and non-active duty beneficiaries.  Medical service 
efficiency is optimized through sound business practices, effective utilization management/review, 
and cost-effective resourcing. 
 
2.4.2.  AFSOC Medical Pilot Units.  AFSOC medical pilot units are responsible for the unit 
program management oversight and act as liaison to the AFSOC/SG.  Pilot Units should appoint 
team chiefs and alternate team chiefs for their pilot UTCs in Medical Readiness Decision Support 
System (MRDSS).  If required, pilot units should participate in the development of TTPs for their 
UTCs.  Pilot units for UTCs can be found in MRDSS. 
 
2.4.3.  Deployed Medical Care Responsibility.  Deployed SOF medical support provides a 
continuum of medical care from point of injury to entrance into the conventional medical system.  
AFSOC medical capability includes BOS medical support, Tactical Combat Casualty Care (TCCC), 
battlefield surgery, and unregulated patient movement to all component SOF units deployed in 
support of special operations missions. 
 
2.4.3.1.  Special Operations Task Group (SOTG).  The SOTG and Special Operations Task Unit 
(SOTU) C2 construct will better organize and prepare AFSOC Airmen in garrison and more clearly 
present AFSOF capabilities to the joint community.  SOTG health service support (HSS) will include 
one medical operations planner and one medical materiel noncommissioned officer (NCO).  These 
medical assets will be deployed and located with the SOTG.  SOFMEs will be assigned to the SOTG 
for support to the aviation SOTUs.  SOFME can provide medical care to the SOTG HQ staff.  When 
the SOTG HQ deploys independent of subordinate Aviation SOTUs, HQ medical care will be 
provided by organic medical teams with the ST or Mission Sustainment Team (MST) SOTUs.  Refer 
to Figure 2.3. for the SOTG organizational chart. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
11 
 
 
Figure 2.3.  SOTG Org Chart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
12 
 
 
Chapter 3 
 
COMMAND AND CONTROL 
 
3.1.  Deployed Lines of Communication.  AFSOC operational medical personnel fall under the 
command and control of AFSOC Line of the Air Force commanders.  While they report to a line 
commander, they are a part of the overall medical capability of the home station base or deployed 
operating location.  AFSOC medics are responsible to their parent line units for the welfare of their 
unit.  AFSOC medical personnel may fall under the professional oversight of a conventional medical 
commander, i.e., when deployed alongside non-SOF medical support units or when SOFMEs are 
deployed to a location with an established military treatment facility.  In these instances, the AFSOC 
senior medical officer will establish the framework for cooperative effort.  Unless otherwise directed, 
AFSOC will deploy under the Air Force Force Generation (AFFORGEN) deployment tempo in a 
SOTG concept (see Figure 3.1.). 
 
Figure 3.1.  SOTG Command Structure 
 
 
3.2.  AFSOC UTC Assignment.  AFSOC medical personnel are UTC-specific trained and equipped 
to support both the AFSOC flying mission as well as the medical support needs of deployed SOF 
units.  Members are assigned to operational units to fill UTCs that are assigned based on operational 
need, such as number of flying units or SOCOM generated requirements. 
 
3.2.1.  ARC Medical Units.  AFSOC UTCs assigned to the AFRC-supported or ANG units are 
coordinated between AFSOC/SG and AFRC/SG or ANG/SG to ensure support to the AFSOC 
mission while maintaining the parent Wing medical support capability. 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
13 
 
 
3.3.  Medical Command and Control. 
 
3.3.1.  Operational Medical C2.  Operational medical personnel fall under the C2 of Line of the Air 
Force Commanders of special operations units.  While deployed, personnel report through SOTG 
and/or task force commanders to the TSOC to the CCDR.  AFSOC mission commanders maintain 
operational control of AFSOC operational medical personnel in order to support short notice and/or 
highly specialized missions and to ensure operational medics have the required training prior to 
being tasked to support such operations. 
 
3.3.1.1.  Non-combatant Status.  AFSOC medical personnel deploy in accordance with (IAW) 
appropriate Geneva Conventions/Law of Armed Conflict directives as members of a USSOCOM or 
TSOC task force. 
 
3.3.1.2.  The AFSOC medics are an operational aeromedical support entity for the special operations 
air component rather than a conventional healthcare support element.  As such, the AFSOC medics 
primarily deploy under the OPCON of the SOTG commander.  
 
3.4.  Concept of Medical Oversight.  Medical oversight must be maintained during daily 
operations, joint exercises, preventive medicine programs, and certification training program 
management.  It is imperative to the success of SOF medicine that everyone involved in response 
and treatment of casualties is trained and proficient to maintain the stated capabilities within this 
document. 
 
3.4.1.  Deployed Medical Oversight.  Deployed Medical Oversight ensures appropriate medical care 
is provided for SOF and complements line-side Commanders.  Typically, direct deployed medical 
oversight is provided by the task force SG.  Additional support can come from the TSOC and/or 
CCMD/SG.  AFSOC medical personnel may fall under the professional medical oversight of a 
conventional medical commander (Expeditionary Medical Support [EMEDS], Field Hospital [FH], 
etc.) when SOFMEs are deployed with non-SOF medical support units or when SOFMEs are 
deployed to a location with an established military treatment facility.  AFSOC medical personnel 
will remain under the OPCON/Tactical Control (TACON) of SOTG, task force, or TSOC 
commanders and will not change OPCON to support non-SOF medical requirements.  Furthermore, 
AFSOC medical personnel will redeploy with AFSOC forces when SOF missions and SOF 
requirements are completed. 
 
3.4.2.  Cooperative Medical Oversight.  CMO allows commanders to maintain effective medical 
coverage while utilizing forces efficiently.  Joint training, standardized practices, and policies 
enhance the interoperability of AFSOC medical forces.  Commanders must be aware and informed 
of the medical capabilities needed and how to employ these support forces effectively and 
efficiently. 
 
3.4.3.  Medical Data Collection.  The senior deployed SOFME medical officer has the 
responsibility to establish a system for the collection of data from all caregivers rendering care to 
assigned or attached forces.  The deployed SOST lead similarly has the responsibility of establishing 
a system of data collection for all care delivered by SOST members.  Medical record keeping will be 
IAW theater policy.  All mission reports will be reviewed, and lessons learned will be reported 
through SOTG and/or task force report channels to the SOFME’s or SOST’s command chain (SOSS, 
Special Operations Group (SOG), etc.) with parallel reporting through the chain of command to 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
14 
 
 
AFSOC/SG via the AFSOC Operations Center. Situation Reports should be accomplished IAW the 
timelines prescribed by their chain of command or AFSOC/SG. 
 
3.4.4.  Relationship with Theater Medical Authorities.  The AFSOC medics have a relationship 
with theater medical authorities.  Although the AFSOC medics maintain command relationships 
through operational chains of command, they adhere to theater medical policies and requirements as 
established by the CCMD/SG and TSOC/SG. 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
15 
 
 
Chapter 4 
 
EMPLOYMENT OF MEDICAL SUPPORT FOR SOF 
 
4.1.  Deployment Concept and Capabilities.  The AFSOC medical UTC employment concept is to 
deploy appropriate UTCs in support of AFSOC/SOF missions.  As a part of the AFFORGEN 
concept, AFSOC medical UTCs are deployed in support of the SOTG model.  Additional medical 
deployment requirements may be aligned against line-side UTCs.  Conventional medical and/or 
aeromedical evacuation (AE) assets may also be integrated with organic medical capabilities of 
special operations units to enhance the medical and AE support as needed. 
 
4.1.1.  Modular Employment Concept.  The AFSOC medical UTC employment concept is based 
on a modular building block approach that allows for the desired capability to be employed at the 
correct time and place in support of AFSOC missions.  AFSOC medical personnel may be collocated 
with other SOF Joint Task Force (JTF) medical assets to ensure full spectrum health support for 
deployed AFSOF and/or other assigned/attached forces. 
 
4.1.2.  SOF Medical Element – UTC FFQEK.  The SOFME is a three-person UTC, AFSOC’s 
primary deployable medical element, and the core AFSOC field medical team.  The SOFME 
normally consists of one flight surgeon and two Special Operations Independent Duty Medical 
Technicians (SOIDMT) who are awarded the 455 Special Experience Identifier.  However, this UTC 
may be tailored to meet operational mission requirements and may include SOF-trained physician 
assistants (PAs) or Nurse Practitioners (NPs) in place of an SOIDMT/SOF trained enlisted medic.  
Internal to the SOFME, the flight surgeon, regardless of rank, is ultimately the medical decision-
making authority.  In the tactical environment, the ranking team member acts as the tactical team 
leader for the SOFME. 
 
4.1.2.1.  SOFME Capability.  SOFME personnel have extensive medical training focused on 
combat health service support, trauma care, aeromedical decision making, and bare-base preventive 
medicine support.  The key capability that the SOFME provides is deployed aerospace medicine 
support for AFSOC aircrews and special duty personnel (PJs, Combat Control Team [CCT], SR, and 
Tactical Air Control Parties [TACP]).  The SOFME provides medical ECS and CASEVAC for 
AFSOF and other SOF.  Medical ECS includes but is not limited to: preventive/occupational 
healthcare, routine healthcare, urgent/emergent point-of-injury trauma care, forward 
resuscitative/stabilization, aeromedical decision making, aircraft mishap investigation, CASEVAC of 
injured/ill personnel, Prolonged Casualty Care (PCC), and medical support for core SOCOM 
activities.  Additionally, SOFME personnel utilize all sources of medical intelligence to develop 
medical threat assessments and advise SOF commanders on how to mitigate potential medical 
threats.  The SOFME is specifically trained and equipped to provide SOF mission support and to 
establish bare-base operations in austere, forward and/or sensitive locations. 
 
4.1.2.2.  When deployed in conjunction with AFSOC equipment UTCs, a SOFME can provide 
medical support to a deployed AFSOC unit for up to 30 days without resupply.  Additionally, the 
SOFME can provide casualty holding and staging for up to 24 hours and forward CASEVAC support 
via any appropriate platform of opportunity to include SOF and non-standard vehicles, vessels, and 
aircraft. 
  
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
16 
 
 
4.1.2.3.  SOFME personnel receive extensive training.  Please reference the AFSOCI 48-1010, 
Aeromedical Special Operations for a complete list of required and recommended trainings.  
 
4.1.2.4.  AFSOC Medical WRM assemblages provide the SOFME with medical supplies and 
equipment required to support SOF combat operations.  All AFSOC WRM assemblages are packed 
to an allowance standard (AS) that ensures interoperability among AFSOC units and interoperability 
with sister service SOF units.  The SOFME individual medical kit is comprised of a medical packs or 
small lightweight modules (carried by each SOFME member) and medical supplies to support 
Advance Trauma Life Support (ATLS) level care for 2-3 severely injured casualties.  The SOFME 
Rapid Response Deployment Kit (RRDK) provides medical equipment and supplies required to 
support a deployed population at risk (PAR) of 200.  The SOFME CASEVAC kit includes 
equipment/supplies necessary to evacuate injured/ill personnel. 
 
4.1.2.5.  The SOFME provides casualty and disease management during SOF operations to stabilize 
injured or ill patients while moving them to/towards definitive care.  If movement by air is 
immediately available and/or rendered urgent by the tactical situation and/or medical condition of the 
patient/casualty, stabilization/treatment may occur during CASEVAC. 
 
4.1.2.5.1.  RRDK – UTC FFQEM.  The RRDK package contains trauma, sick call, preventive 
medicine, and emergency medical treatment resources for short term tactical deployment of special 
operations forces to an austere location.  The RRDK is composed of four modules:  Advanced 
Resuscitation Module, Trauma Module, Environmental Module, and Medical Module.  The 
Advanced Resuscitation Module is comprised of medical supplies and equipment to support 
advanced cardiac life support.  The Trauma Module provides supplies and equipment for Advanced 
Trauma Life Support, both at the base level and during CASEVAC missions.  The Environmental 
Module encompasses equipment and supplies utilized for conducting public health threat 
assessments at a deployed location.  The Medical Module is packed with medical equipment and 
supplies to provide routine (clinical/sick call) patient care. 
 
4.1.2.5.2.  CASEVAC Kit – UTC FFQEN.  This UTC provides additional equipment for SOFMEs 
supporting extended bare base operations.  The CASEVAC equipment module is designed to provide 
in-flight casualty treatment, sustainment, and monitoring, as well as the ability to transport and store 
blood and blood products.  The CASEVAC Kit adds a communication suite that enables the SOFME 
to transmit secure voice/data in support of casualty management and disease non-battle injury 
(DNBI) tracking.  This kit complements the RRDK and supports CASEVAC of two critical patients 
per mission. 
 
4.1.2.5.3.  SOF Air Transportable Treatment Unit (ATTU) – UTC FFQEL.  The SOF ATTU is a 
mobile medical treatment facility for establishing an environmentally controlled shelter that is 
complete with generators, environmental control unit, and tents.  It may be deployed with the 
SOFME to provide shelter for primary care and emergency medical operations.  Additionally, ATTU 
contains a laptop computer and other administrative supplies for a deployed SOFME.  It provides 
temporary holding and staging shelter for AE.  SOFMEs supported with an ATTU can be self-
sufficient for short periods but requires BOS for extended duration operations. 
 
4.1.2.5.4.  SOF Medical Element Augmentation – UTC FFQE8.  SOF Medical Element 
Augmentation Team: This 4-member team consists of a PA, Bioenvironmental Engineering 
technician, Public Health technician, and a medical liaison officer.  SOF Medical Element 
Augmentation is designed to augment bare base operations that are serviced by a SOFME.  The 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
17 
 
 
package enhances capability to perform food safety, long-term hygiene sustainability, environmental 
protection surveillance, communicable disease control tasks, medical logistics, and operational 
planning.  Additionally, it provides chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and environmental 
threat detection, limited patient decontamination capability.  It is important to note that this element 
is not staffed or equipped to perform overall base wide decontamination.  Close coordination with 
the deployed base commander must be maintained to prevent any misinterpretation of this specific 
capability.  
 
4.1.2.5.5.  SOF Medical Augmentation Equipment Package – UTC FFQEG.  This package 
provides enough equipment and supplies for limited bare base support for force health protection 
surveillance and decontamination activities. 
 
4.1.3.  Special Operations Surgical Team (SOST) – UTC FFQE3.  The six-person SOST is 
composed of a General Surgeon (45S3), an Emergency Services Physician (44E3A), an Advanced 
Practice Nurse – Certified Nurse Anesthetist (046Y3M) (substitutable with an Anesthesiologist 
[45A3]), a critical care nurse (46N3E), a Surgical Services Craftsman (4N171), and a respiratory 
therapy technician (4H171).  The SOST comprises the core of AFSOC’s advanced surgical 
capability.  Once on location, the team’s equipment and personnel can be tailored to provide 
immediate on-scene trauma response and far-forward surgical resuscitation utilizing shelters of 
opportunity or full surgical stabilization from a forward operating base depending on the needs of the 
mission.  The six-member team and accompanying supply and equipment increments (UTCs 
FFQEF/E/S) can be airlifted in any aircraft.  Ground transportation can be accomplished in a single 
High Mobility Multi-Wheeled Vehicle, field ambulance, or larger sized vehicle.  The equipment 
package to support the SOST is organized such that it can be palletized as personal or professional 
gear.  Majority of supplies and equipment are maintained in man-portable field packs.  The team 
requires shelter and potable water to be operational.  Once operational, it can be self-sufficient for 48 
hours and then requires normal base operating support. 
 
4.1.3.1.  SOST Capability.  The SOST is designed to be a lightweight, rapidly deployable far-
forward surgical team that can provide advanced emergency medical and surgical care to combat and 
other casualties within 15 minutes from the time of infiltration to a usable shelter of opportunity.   
The SOST can provide damage control surgical stabilization and emergency medical care to injured 
or critically ill patients in any environment and on multiple airframes.  SOST can perform up to two 
surgical cases with four resuscitation cases utilizing the primary equipment package.  Sustainment 
increment packages add a potential capability for 30 additional patients.  Laboratory data is restricted 
to a handheld clinical lab analyzer.  Radiographic imaging is limited to chest and portable 
sonography.  Medications are limited to those essential for emergency resuscitative care, 
resuscitative surgery, and immediate post-operative critical care.  SOST members can provide 
CASEVAC or MEDEVAC care during patient movement.  Capability is limited to the primary 
deployment package unless medical resupply is readily available.  As such, SOST capability can be 
expanded modularly for larger scale operations of longer duration. 
 
4.1.3.2.  SOST Equipment.  The SOST equipment packages are modular and composed of three 
complementary assemblages.  The first increment can stand alone for initial care but all three are 
required to provide patients with optimal medical care. 
 
4.1.3.2.1.  SOST Surgical Primary Response Equipment – UTC FFQEF. This primary equipment 
package is contained in portable field packs and holds supplies for up to 10 resuscitative surgeries. 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
18 
 
 
Personnel will deploy with four portable packs. 
 
4.1.3.2.2.  SOST Surgical Electric Equipment Augmentation – UTC FFQEE.  The second 
increment is designed to augment the first increment and includes the electronics package and part of 
the communications package. 
 
4.1.3.2.3.  SOST Critical Care Initial Response Equipment – UTC FFQEB.  The third increment 
is critical care initial response. Provides equipment for trauma resuscitation and casualty evacuation.  
 
4.1.4.  SOTG HQ Medical – UTC FFQE1.  This UTC provides a command medical staff element 
for deployed AFSOF headquarters command for contingency operations.  The two personnel include 
Health Services Administrator (41A3) and Medical Materiel Craftsman (4A171).  Suitable 
substitutes for the 41A3 can be any trained medical operations personnel, such as a Health Service 
Management (4A0) or a PA (42G3P).  It provides oversight of deployed medical assets, medical 
programs, and medical force health protection measures.  They provide medical input to required 
briefings and reports and serves as liaison with other medical elements and host nation (HN) medical 
agencies. 
 
4.1.5.  SOF Mission Sustainment Team (MST) Medical.  Medical personnel will also deploy as 
part of the MST.  This team provides HSS to the expeditionary MST.  These medical assets will be 
deployed and collocated with the MST.   The medical care provided will be focused on acute care of 
the deployed personnel, site surveys, basic preventative medicine, and small unit and point of injury 
care.  This team is not trained to conduct paramedic skills, CASEVAC, PCC, and Damage Control 
Resuscitation (DCR).  
 
4.1.6.  SOF Medical Augmentation – UTC FFQE9.  This UTC provides additional medical 
support personnel to an operational AFSOC unit or SOTG.  Deploys in conjunction with UTCs 
FFQEK and FFQEM.  It can provide primary care and aerospace medicine to a deployed AFSOC 
unit for durations up to 30 days without resupply. 
 
4.1.7.  AFSOC Global Health Engagement (GHE) and International Health Specialists.  
AFSOC/SG GHE and International Health Specialists supports the overall Air Force and AFSOC 
Irregular Warfare program.  GHE helps shape a theater and provide access employment vectors in 
support of a TSOC.  They can also build partner nation (PN) military and government medical 
capacities.  AFSOC will continue to expand their current medical capabilities and develop new 
capabilities as needed to allow AFSOC to perform the GHE missions.  AFSOC/SG has established 
three personnel UTCs (FFQE6 and FFQET) specifically for GHE missions. 
 
4.1.7.1.  SOF GHE Team – UTC FFQE6.  This UTC provides support to the CCDRs’ theater 
security cooperation goals and objectives by building partnership capacity in health and medical 
services and infrastructure.  It is primarily intended to deploy and collocate with US SOF forces.  
This UTC can be deployed in total or increments to meet operational mission requirements. 
 
4.1.7.2.  SOF GHE Augmentation – UTC FFQET.  This UTC provides additional medical 
personnel to execute missions in support of security cooperation and International Health Specialist 
operations.   
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
19 
 
 
4.2.  Advantages.  A major benefit derived from the development of AFSOC medical modules is 
incremental deployment flexibility.  As a result, medical deployment packages are tailored to the 
specific task/operation.  Medical kits can be deployed in whole or in part, allowing deploying medics 
to hand carry the initial medical response package on any organic aircraft or to palletize the medical 
kit with other mobility equipment.  Follow-on medical equipment can be transported as airlift 
availability permits. 
 
4.3.  Core Concepts of AFSOC Medicine in the Battlespace. 
 
4.3.1.  BOS.  Provides foundational medical support for normal day to day operations.  These 
capabilities include, but are not limited to: 
 
• Small Unit Care 
• Aeromedical Dispositions 
• Preventive Medicine 
• Aircraft Mishap Investigations 
• Medical Intelligence 
• Medical Planning 
• Deployment Related Health Assessments 
 
4.3.2.  CASEVAC.  AFSOC medical personnel, specifically SOFME and SOST, are trained in 
CASEVAC operations and can move patients that require advanced medical interventions in any 
platform of opportunity.  This can provide the SOTG the capability to move a casualty to a higher 
echelon of care.  
 
4.3.3.  PCC.  The SOFME team provides advanced monitoring, sedation/pain management, airway 
control, ventilator management, nursing care for an extended period (dependent on limitations placed 
by the mission environment,), and patient packaging.  Additionally, the element can provide ongoing 
resuscitation and critical care management, including but not limited to, blood transfusion, invasive 
hemodynamic monitoring, and laboratory testing. 
 
4.3.4.  DCR/Damage Control Surgery (DCS).  SOST can provide DCR/DCS, to include blood 
product administration, advanced airway placement/management, pharmacological treatment, 
invasive monitoring, point-of-care ultrasound assessment, and surgery for hemorrhage control.  
SOST is the only capability that can provide both DCR and DCS.  Other AFSOF medical personnel 
can provide only DCR.  Resuscitation capabilities can be performed throughout all phases of care. 
 
4.4.  Casualty and Disease Management in SOF Operations.  AFSOC deployed capability for 
management of disease and injury can be characterized by four phases: 1) Point of Injury Care; 2) 
initial response; 3) stabilization and treatment; and 4) CASEVAC.  Phases two through four may 
overlap and/or occur simultaneously to varying extents, depending on the scenario.  The patient 
movement and casualty management process are outlined in Figure 4.1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
20 
 
 
Figure 4.1.  SOF Casualty Management 
 
 
 
4.4.1.  PHASE I – TCCC.  TCCC is the foundation of the medical care system.  Properly trained 
and equipped non-medical personnel are able to provide initial lifesaving first aid in the absence of 
trained medical professionals or assist medical professionals during a mass casualty situation.  TCCC 
is especially critical for AFSOC forces due to the limited number of AFSOC medics.  All AFSOC 
personnel receive TCCC training IAW Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1322.24, Medical 
Readiness Training. 
 
4.4.2.  PHASE II – Initial Response.  AFSOC ST PJs perform advanced battlefield trauma care and 
emergency medical treatment while in the performance of special operations missions.  ST PJs are 
specifically trained for combat surface operations either independently or in conjunction with Special 
Forces, Combat Control, Rangers, and Sea-Air-Land (SEAL) Teams.  Although they do not hold a 
medical Air Force Specialty Code, the medical care rendered by AFSOC Pararescue personnel falls 
within the professional purview and oversight of AFSOC/SG, through the 24 SOW/SG.  Additional 
AFSOC Pararescue capabilities include: 
 
• 
Functioning as initial responders in support of far forward personnel recovery operations. 
• 
Conducting casualty collection operations during DA missions or in hostile/denied areas. 
• 
Providing the vital link in the transition process from Personnel Recovery – Combat Search 
and Rescue (PR – CSAR) field missions to the casualty evacuation system. 
 
4.4.2.1.  Transload.  Pararescue specialists provide the vital link in the transition from direct actions 
or PR-CSAR field missions to definitive care platforms.  Whenever possible this phase is rapid and 
short term.  When recovery/rescue operations are conducted over large geographical distances, 
pararescue resources must be returned to action rapidly.  If advanced medical transport care is 
required, transition of patients to a CASEVAC mission may have to be conducted.  This transition is 
defined as a transload and can only be accomplished through concise pre-coordination with medical 
Point of Injury 
(POI) 
Initial Stabilization & 
Extraction 
CASEVAC 
CASEVAC 
Transload 
CASEVAC 
SOF/PJ 
SOF/PJ  SOFME 
SOF/PJ  SOFME 
SOFME  SOST 
SOFME & SOST 
SOF FOB 
Trauma Stabilization 
and Treatment 
MOB 
Follow-on Treatment & 
AE Staging 
Aeromedical 
Evacuation 
Definitive care 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
21 
 
 
and operational planners.  Transload operations must be coordinated and exercised to ensure the 
highest level of patient safety and clinical care.  It is important to note that care must be taken to 
ensure accurate patient information is passed along.  The PJ team leader should ensure that all 
pertinent patient information is passed to any subsequent care provider and to appropriate command 
and control agencies. 
 
4.4.2.2.  Medical Personnel Utilization.  In intermediate situations where tactical extraction and 
initial stabilization are necessary under high threat but less than active combat conditions, PJs in 
combination with SOFME assets, can be used to provide greater monitoring and treatment capability 
as well as a high level of medical capability immediately to the casualties.  Environments where 
extended transport time (over two hours) are expected, there is a known disease component along 
with the trauma, or other complicating medical factors may be part of the injury scenario, SOFME 
assets should be considered. 
 
4.4.3.  PHASE III – Casualty Stabilization and Disease Treatment.  Stabilization surgery, 
performed by the SOST, is aimed at achieving a stable airway, controlling hemorrhage/internal 
bleeding, and stabilizing orthopedic injuries.  Stabilization begins with the first responders and 
continues as the casualty is transferred to the care of the SOFME and moved towards definitive care.  
Serious disease requiring evacuation is stabilized and moved in the same fashion.  Stabilization can 
become a prolonged phase lasting over 24 hours if host-nation care is unacceptable and strategic 
aeromedical evacuation is not immediately available.  SOFMEs manage less serious disease 
amenable to treatment in the forward setting.  
 
4.4.4.  PHASE IV – CASEVAC.  CASEVAC is defined as the unregulated movement of patients 
from either the point of injury or a transload site to a point where they enter the regulated patient 
movement system or definitive medical care system.  Special operations security considerations and 
mission constraints may preclude the establishment of traditional AE and medical regulating systems 
far forward.  AFSOC has organized, trained, and equipped SOFME and SOST assets to meet this 
requirement.  AFSOC medics will provide definitive circulation and airway management (i.e., 
hemorrhage control, fluid and blood resuscitation, and ventilator management) as well as detailed 
medical monitoring and administration of medications during transport.  Responsibility for the 
planning and coordination of CASEVAC and AE of SOF rests with the supported commander and 
task force SG.  Conventional AE mission will require patient regulation through the Patient 
Movement Requirements Center (PMRC) assigned to the operational Area of Responsibility (AOR). 
 
4.4.5.  Casualty Movement.  SOFME and SOST flight personnel are trained in contingency patient 
movement procedures and are qualified to provide casualty evacuation support.  If the tactical 
situation permits and with the approval of the senior AFSOC line commander, AFSOC medical 
flight personnel can provide casualty evacuation support on AFSOC weapon systems or other 
opportune air, land, and sea modes of travel from secured objective locations to SOF operating bases. 
 
4.4.5.1.  Aircraft Familiarization.  SOFME and SOST personnel have the capability to configure 
AFSOC aircraft and other aircraft of opportunity and provide enroute medical stabilization support 
and intervention until a transition to the established conventional medical and AE systems can be 
accomplished.  Aircraft familiarization should be conducted prior to deployment and upon arrival at a 
deployed location.  The SOFME and SOST should accomplish regular configuration training while 
deployed. 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
22 
 
 
Chapter 5 
PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS 
5.1.  SOF Operational Environment Medical Planning Considerations. 
 
5.1.1.  Comprehensive Medical Planning.  The SOF casualty care system begins with pre-
deployment activities that include identification of the PAR and the medical requirements and 
medical intelligence gathering required to support the PAR.  The AFSOC medical operations 
planner, particularly in the SOTG model, translates the requirements into a plan by recognizing 
mission resource requirements, identifying HN or PN medical facility capabilities, coordinating 
support with the AE system, coordinating with the Combatant Command Trauma System (CTS), and 
coordinating with HSS agencies or deployed medical assets. 
 
5.1.2.  Medical Intelligence.  AFSOC medical planners have access to multiple intelligence 
resources and gathering methods, to include Public Health resources, Pre-deployment site surveys 
(PDSS), National Center for Medical Intelligence, Defense Intelligence Agency, and coordination 
with theater medical planners. 
 
5.1.3.  Medical Integration.  AFSOC medical forces are not organically equipped to perform 
extended medical operations or medical logistics support.  Situations may mandate the close 
integration, coordination, and cooperation between AFSOC medical personnel and those within the 
established operational theater.  As mission requirements allow, and with the approval/coordination 
of the AFSOC line commander, AFSOC medical forces will integrate with other deployed medical 
resources to maximize the overall base medical readiness posture. 
 
5.2.  AFSOC Interface with Medical Contingency Ground Support Systems. 
 
5.2.1.  Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System.  This system includes the 
Squadron Medical Elements and IDMTs assigned to operational units or remote sites and represents 
the cornerstone of medical support to Air Expeditionary Force forces deployed in any worldwide 
contingency.  Any special operations medic assigned or attached unit to a SOTU will coordinate with 
the lead SOFME or medical operations planner assigned to the SOTG.  Medical oversight and 
coordination are required to ensure efficient use of limited medical assets in theater. 
 
5.2.2.  AFSOC Medical and EMEDS Integration.  It is imperative that all AFSOC medical 
personnel and planners understand the capabilities inherent with each component, and specifically 
the HSS capability available during each phase of the EMEDS buildup.  This will typically be the 
first interface point with medical units possessing enhanced clinical capabilities and inpatient beds.  
Components of the Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System are utilized to provide 
essential medical/dental care, deferring definitive care as dictated by theater medical Concept of 
Operations. 
 
5.2.3.  SOF Casualty Management.  Once admitted to the medical treatment facility, SOF 
casualties are not always managed, regulated, or evacuated similar to conventional forces.  SOF 
personnel normally have a separate evacuation policy to prevent personnel with critical specialties 
from being evacuated out of theater.  SOF missions are often politically sensitive, there may be a 
requirement to safeguard the patient's identity, to prevent any compromise of the unit's presence or 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
23 
 
 
jeopardize the operational mission.  If requirements to safeguard patients' identities exist, prior 
coordination with the JTF/SG should occur to determine appropriate AE procedures. 
 
5.3.  Interface with the Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) System. 
 
5.3.1.  Movement of SOF Casualties.  Evacuation procedures employed are dependent on the 
special operations mission and the presence of a developed HSS system.  The techniques, 
procedures, and equipment used to evacuate and/or extract casualties are consistent with the nature 
of SOF missions both principal and collateral. 
 
5.3.2.  AE/SOF Planning Considerations.  Planning should also address the interface with the AE 
system for patient movement requirements.  AE for SOF may be difficult because of far forward 
operating location. AE mission requirements should be coordinated through the theater PMRC.  It is 
important to note that patient movement planning is complicated by the nature of special operations 
missions that require operational security measures precluding immediate patient movement to 
eliminate the signature of forces in sensitive areas or compromise mission accomplishment.  AFTTP 
3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) may also be used as a reference for planning considerations. 
 
5.3.3.  AFSOC AE Planning.  AFSOC does not possess organic conventional AE capability and 
must identify requirements for and obtain conventional AE support.  Contingency planning should 
include the movement of patients from forward or remote areas back to military or HN’s medical 
treatment facilities that have the capabilities to provide the appropriate level and standard of care.   
 
5.3.3.1.  AE/SOF Integration.  Integration of SOF and the AE system is very likely.  Contingency 
and crisis action planning match SOF missions to SOF and conventional AE capabilities.  SOF 
missions require a flexible response.  Therefore, conventional AE units tasked to support SOF 
missions may occasionally be required to modify or adjust their operational concepts to meet SOF 
mission requirements.  An AE planner may be an active participant in the planning process.  The task 
force or SOTG HQ medical operations planner will develop and coordinate all patient movement 
support requirements with AE planners.  Conventional AE units need not obtain SOF type 
equipment.  Proficiency in their Mission Essential Tasks List and UTC Mission Capability 
Statements (MISCAPs) will be the basis for developing roles and missions IAW AFMAN 11-
2AEV1, Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Training.  
 
5.3.3.2.  AE/SOF Doctrinal Differences.  Doctrinal differences from SOF and AE will be addressed 
in the planning process.  SOF does not organically have patient movement items (PMI) assets and 
provides limited documentation on casualties.  Predetermined PMI may need to be strategically 
placed at forward locations or brought by AE teams.  There may be no medical regulating of patients 
from forward areas and patients may be moved to pre-designated military treatment facilities 
(MTFs).  SOF medical equipment is limited and may not move with the patient.  Little or no 
medications will accompany patients. 
 
5.4.  Mission Planning. 
 
5.4.1.  Medical Operations Planner.  Mission planning is paramount to the successful execution of 
exercises, deployments, and operations.  Due to the diversity of the geographic areas of 
responsibility that SOF operate in, each OSM and SOTG has a designated medical operations 
planner to ensure the needs of the mission are met.  The medical operations planner coordinates the 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
24 
 
 
SOF casualty care system, logistics, and operational support with headquarters, joint, and theater 
planners.  PJ team leaders play a vital role in operational planning and can offer guidance to medical 
operations planner as to care available, transport options, operational environment, and ongoing 
operations. 
 
5.4.2.  Risk Management.  Since AFSOC medical assets are limited, task force surgeons and 
commanders must carefully consider available resources when assigning personnel to CASEVAC 
roles and other forward contingency taskings.  Appropriate risk management processes must be 
considered when determining the optimal utilization of the AFSOC medical assets.  Appropriate 
tailoring of force size and composition during the pre-deployment planning phases will greatly assist 
in ensuring availability of the required medical resources to meet operational requirements. 
 
5.4.3.  Medical Mission Constraints and Risk Mitigation.  AFSOC aircraft configuration and 
mission profiles limit the extent of medical care which can be provided during flight from an 
objective area to more definitive care. 
 
5.4.3.1.  CASEVAC Mission Support.  SOFMEs are specifically trained and may be tasked to 
support CASEVAC missions, as determined by the designated deployed SOF medical commander 
and the mission commander. 
 
5.4.3.2.  CASEVAC Mission Planning.  IDMTs should be considered first when planning to 
execute a CASEVAC mission.  Some missions may dictate utilization of a physician or physician 
extender in addition to or in lieu of an IDMT.  Commanders must evaluate the risk and mission 
requirements to determine the best team composition to accomplish a tasking. 
 
5.4.4.  Non-combatant Assets.  Medical personnel and equipment are non-combatant assets.  
However, AFSOC operational medical personnel train in small unit tactics, weapons use, and all 
appropriate combat skills for the SOF environment.  They deploy armed to defend themselves and 
their patients according to mission requirements.  AFSOC medics should be tactically sound, so as 
not to degrade the capability of the operation.  Overall security for the AFSOC medics and their 
patients is the responsibility of the forces securing the forward operating location or the supported 
team.  Medical site assets and patients will be protected as a controlled area in accordance with DAFI 
31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program.  Medical personnel should never be placed in 
an offensive role. 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
25 
 
 
Chapter 6 
 
MEDICAL LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND WRM 
 
6.1.  Medical Logistics Support for Special Operations UTCs and Medical WRM. 
 
6.1.1.  Purpose.  AFSOC WRM assemblages provide medical supplies and equipment needed to 
support combat casualty initial treatment, transport, and the prevention of DNBI.  All AFSOC WRM 
assemblages are packed to a standardized AS to ensure interoperability between AFSOC medical 
personnel.  AFSOC logisticians working with line and medical operations planners have the 
requirement base to plan and predict the acquisition and flow of supplies and maintenance of WRM 
that special operations medics will require.  Their knowledge allows essential strategies to be 
formulated to ensure adequate equipment and supplies for the deployed SOF medical assets. 
 
6.1.2.  Deployment Planning.  During initial deployment planning, theater medical planning 
guidance generally requires units to deploy with a 30-day package of medical supplies.  For AFSOC 
units, the deployment load will vary based on mission requirements and operational constraints.  To 
determine medical logistic requirements, medical operations planners must consider the mission and 
its duration, the availability of supplies at the mission location, and the alternate medical supply 
sources available in the event the conventional supply system breaks down. 
 
6.1.3.  AFSOC Medical Logistics.  AFSOC medical forces currently possess limited logistical 
support capabilities.  In many SOF operations, the nature of the operation (clandestine, short-term, 
etc.) will not allow or require a resupply mechanism to be established.  During clandestine 
operations, adequate medical supplies and equipment are deployed with AFSOC medical units to 
ensure capability exists to support operational requirements.  When resupply is required, SOF 
medical operations planners establish resupply through a variety of mechanisms to include: (1) 
support from a host medical treatment facility; (2) in-country Department of State assets; and (3) 
home station or main operating base.  When deployed in support of a major regional conflict, 
AFSOC medical logistics support is provided by the conventional HSS system.  Prior coordination 
with host medical treatment facility or task force SG will help ensure adequate medical logistics 
support is available. 
 
6.1.4.  Medical Logistics Planning.  Medical involvement in all phases of mission planning is 
essential for mission success.  Medical resupply requirements are driven entirely by the planned 
mission.  Consequently, such operations may require coordination to ensure resupply when and if 
necessary.  AFSOC medical logistics should be coordinated by the medical operations planner or 
medical logistics NCO through task force SG and TSOC.  Cost estimates should be provided in the 
preliminary planning process to ensure reconstitution of all AFSOC WRM assets.  Resupply must be 
addressed in the pre-deployment planning process.  AFSOC medical supply costs are funded by the 
supported unit(s), and reimbursed, when possible, from operations, exercise, or contingency funds. 
 
6.1.4.1.  Medical Logistic Objectives.  Logistical objectives are to reduce the physical footprint for 
deployment without degradation of medical capability, reduction of portability, or loss of logistics 
support to ensure responsive sustainment.  In many SOF operations, the short term, clandestine, or 
low-visibility nature of the operation will not permit the establishment of a standard resupply 
mechanism. 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
26 
 
 
6.1.4.2.  Medical Logistics Planning.  When deployed in conjunction with AFSOC equipment 
UTCs, AFSOC medical assets are normally capable of providing medical support to a deployed 
AFSOC unit for up to 30 days without resupply.  Consequently, such operations may require 
particularly careful coordination to ensure resupply when and if necessary.  SOF medical logistics 
are normally coordinated through the SOF medical plans officer and the TSOC.  This can be 
provided by the nearest Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM). 
 
6.1.5.  Reconstitution.  All AFSOC medical WRM packages are maintained in a "ready to deploy" 
configuration.  Medical supply and equipment packages returned to the unit following deployment 
will be reconstituted to meet required response times in Designed Operational Capability statements.  
UTCs must be maintained to 90% readiness posture for critical items. 
 
6.1.6.  Rebuilding.  Documentation of medical supplies and equipment used/expended during any 
training or operational deployment will be maintained by AFSOC medical personnel to assist in the 
recovery of after-the-fact funding as required.  Details and specifics of logistical support will be 
provided and will be identified in applicable base support plans.  Established AFSOC medical 
assemblage AS will be modified through recommendations of the pilot units, as appropriate.  
AFSOC medical assemblages are specifically designed for rapid load planning, deployment, 
employment, and reconstitution. 
 
6.2.  Medical Supplies and Equipment Operations. 
 
6.2.1.  Initial Deployment.  Theater medical planning guidance generally requires units to deploy 
with a 30-day package of medical supplies.  The initial deployment load for AFSOC units will vary 
based on mission requirements and operational constraints.  To remain agile, AFSOC medical forces 
only possess short-term logistical support capabilities.  AFSOC medical units have medical stock 
record accounts at home station but may depend on local base/host medical treatment facilities for 
various types of medical logistics support, linen control (as applicable), and biomedical equipment 
repair support. 
 
6.2.2.  Re-supply.  In many SOF operations, the nature of the operation (clandestine, short-term, 
etc.), will not allow or require a resupply mechanism to be established.  Theater familiarization and 
robust mission analysis can potentially help mitigate some of the risk to mission that is presented by 
difficult re-supply.  Pre-planning with the TSOC medical logistics team, which can coordinate with 
the TLAMM, may help establish a defined re-supply while in theater. 
 
6.2.3.  Sustainment Operations.  When deployed in support of a major regional conflict, AFSOC 
medical logistics support is provided by the conventional HSS system (reference AFTTP 3-42.711, 
Blood Support Operations and AFMAN 41-209, Medical Logistics Support).  Prior coordination 
with the TSOC/SG or JTF /SG will help ensure adequate medical logistics support is available. 
 
6.2.4.  SOF Medical Logistics Supply Chain Essentials.  Medical logistics personnel must be 
familiar with the following supply chain methods and programs to ensure SOF forces maintain 
adequate supplies for long periods of time: Government Purchase Cards programs, TLAMM, 
Department of Defense (DoD)Acquisition Code, and AOR funding programs. 
 
6.2.5.  TLAMM.  In overseas theaters, these organizations have historically included Army medical 
materiel centers (MMC) that provide comprehensive medical logistics support to both institutional 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
27 
 
 
MTFs and contingency operations.  Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) recognized the value of these 
theater medical logistics organizations leading to their designations as TLAMM.  Currently, the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on recommendation of the DLA Director, has approved 
TLAMM designations for each CCMD as follows: 
 
Table 6.1. TLAMM Designations 
 
Combatant 
Command 
Designated Theater Lead Agent for Medical Materiel (TLAMM) 
USEUCOM 
US Army Medical Materiel Center – Europe (USAMMC-E) 
USAFRICOM 
USCENTCOM 
US Army Medical Materiel Center – Southwest Asia (USAMMC-SWA) 
USINDOPACOM 
18th Medical Group, Kadena AB – (TLAMM-Pacific) 
USFK 
US Army Medical Materiel Center – Korea (USAMMC-K) 
USNORTHCOM 
US Army Medical Command 
USSOUTHCOM 
Air Force Medical Readiness Agency, Medical Logistics Division 
 
Theater Lead Agents support the CCMD and its Service components, as well as DLA, in planning 
and execution of medical supply chain support and provide a single point of contact for medical 
logistics support to theater medical forces. 
 
6.2.6.  Blood and Blood Products.  The Armed Services Blood Program is a DoD level function 
governed by Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6480.04, Armed Services Blood Program 
(ASBP).  Other key references include AFTTP 3-42.711, Blood Support Operations, AFI 44-105, 
The Air Force Blood Program, AFH 44-152, Armed Services Blood Program – Joint Blood Program 
Handbook, and the theater specific blood program guidance are key references for SOF medics in 
managing and administering blood and blood products in a deployed environment.  AFSOC 
operational medical units will establish local policies and procedures for use, storage, and re-supply 
of blood and blood products.  AFSOC operational medical units will incorporate the use of blood and 
blood products in their training. 
 
6.3.  Integration.  Integration of the deployed AFSOC medical assets with other SOF component 
medical teams, as well with the line special operations units, is necessary to facilitate required ECS 
and AE support. 
 
6.3.1.  ECS Support.  ECS requirements may include, but are not limited to, power, messing, water, 
fuel, billeting, transportation, communication, logistics, security, medical oxygen, and operational 
funds. 
 
6.3.2.  AE Support.  Rapid patient evacuation is essential to mission success.  The teams are not 
capable of furnishing medical supplies and equipment to patients during the conventional AE process 
when not accompanying the patient.  Medical involvement in all phases of patient movement mission 
planning is essential for mission success.  Early CASEVAC to definitive care will enhance patient 
survivability and mission success.  Integration with the conventional AE will improve patient 
survivability. 
 
6.3.2.1.  PMI.  These items are the jointly designated supplies and equipment necessary to support 
patient movement within AE.  The system exchanges like-kind equipment without degrading 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
28 
 
 
capabilities and provides prompt recycling of PMI.  The equipment management process system 
provides seamless, in-transit visibility of PMI from its initial entry into the AE system to the 
patient’s final destination.  While the PMI program is mandated by the Assistant SecDef (Health 
Affairs), the HAF/SG has oversight responsibility, and Air Mobility Command (AMC)/SG has 
program management responsibility.  MAJCOM and CCDR/SG are executive managers of PMI 
within their AOR (i.e. AMC/SG, Pacific Air Forces/SG, United States Air Forces in Europe/SG). 
 
6.4.  Ground Transportation Consideration.  AFSOC medics may require dedicated vehicles.  
These can function as patient transport vehicles/ambulances, medical response vehicles, and to move 
medical equipment as needed.  The request should be coordinated with the respective logistician.  
 
6.5.  Additional support.  The medical operations planner/medical logistics NCO interfaces with 
TSOC and AFSOC staff to plan for and coordinate medical readiness, medical logistics, and mission 
planning needs of the AFSOC medical assets. 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
29 
 
 
Chapter 7 
TRAINING 
7.1.  Objective.  The overall objective of SOF medical training programs is to develop and maintain 
a high state of mission readiness of AFSOC medical personnel for rapid employment across the 
spectrum of SOF operational requirements.  AFSOC medical personnel interface with conventional, 
nonconventional, joint, coalition medical forces and conventional patient movement systems as 
dictated by circumstances and requirement.  AFSOC medical personnel must be interoperable with 
all other SOF medical personnel.  AFSOC medics must be trained to perform their roles at night, 
during low-light or blackout conditions, in environmental extremes, and in combat environments.  
The overarching goal is for AFSOC mission commanders to have the operational control of the 
medical assets required to support short notice and/or highly specialized missions and to ensure these 
personnel have the required training prior to being tasked to support such operations. 
 
7.2.  Responsibilities.  AFSOC/SG is lead command designee for training course requirements, 
training tasks, and coordinating the development and publication of SOF medical training standards.  
AFSOC/Chief Medical Operations is the OPR for clinical and operational medicine issues that 
impact non-aerospace medicine deployed medical forces while AFSOC/Chief Aerospace Medicine 
(SGP) is the OPR for all aerospace medicine issues.  The SGP represents AFSOC at the Pararescue 
Medical Oversight Advisory Board to address clinical and operational medicine issues that impact 
pararescue forces. 
 
7.3.  Medical Training Requirements. 
 
7.3.1.  Joint Medical Training.  Successful joint interoperability is achieved through joint medical 
training standards.  SOF Medic is the current standard and AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special 
Operations outlines AFSOC medics compliance with this standard. 
 
7.3.2.  Air Force Medical Service Medical Training.  AFSOC medical personnel will train and 
maintain medical readiness skills, clinical currency, medical licensure, and specialty credentials IAW 
AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special Operations. 
 
7.3.3.  AFSOC Medical Training.  All AFSOC medical personnel will meet all training 
requirements outlined in AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special Operations.  Medical units will 
track and report training status in accordance with AFI 41-106, Air Force Medical Readiness 
Program, AFI 10-201, Force Readiness Reporting, and other AFSOC guidance. 
 
7.3.4.  UTC-specific Training.  AFSOC medical personnel assigned to deployable UTCs may have 
additional training requirements in order to provide all capabilities as per MISCAPs as well as to 
ensure complete familiarity with UTC equipment and supplies.  These additional training 
requirements are outlined in AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special Operations.  Medical units will 
track and report training status in accordance with AFI 41-106, Air Force Medical Readiness 
Program, AFI 10-201, Force Readiness Reporting, and other AFSOC guidance.  Metric 
requirements for tracking specific training line items will be provided by AFSOC/SG. 
 
7.3.5.  Operational Training.  AFSOC medical personnel are expected to operate effectively across 
a variety of austere, far-forward scenarios as well as in the airborne environment on AFSOC and 
other opportune aircraft in garrison, while airborne, and in areas of elevated threat, regularly without 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
30 
 
 
the benefit of mature echelons of care.  Operational training requirements include advanced tactical 
practitioner skills, unregulated casualty evacuation, operational medical planning, and prolonged 
casualty care.  The requirements for training include advanced survival training, advanced weapons 
training, night operations training, small unit tactics, aircraft emergency procedures, egress training, 
and use of aircraft emergency equipment.  Additionally, AFSOC medical personnel must be trained 
to meet USSOCOM interoperability requirements standards when required for AFSOC missions. 
Finally, AFSOC medical personnel are expected to sustain comprehensive medical readiness for 
rapid deployment with assigned AFSOC task groups and task units. 
 
7.4.  Credentials.  AFSOC medical personnel must fulfill all medical credentialing requirements 
IAW USAF and home station medical group credentialing requirements. 
 
7.5.  Recruitment.  Recruitment of AFSOC medical personnel must take into consideration the 
nature of the SOF mission.  Candidates must be highly motivated; have a proclivity for the mental 
and physical challenges associated with AFSOC operational medic duties; willingly accept a high 
operations tempo that has the potential to interfere with personal interests (e.g., family life); be 
prepared to tolerate environmental extremes and substandard living conditions; accept a level of 
physical risk greater than that faced by conventional medical forces; function effectively despite 
circadian disruption; possess the interpersonal skills needed to integrate with SOF.  Candidates must 
also be able to meet rigorous training requirements as delineated in this chapter and AFSOCI 48-
1010, Aeromedical Special Operations. 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
31 
 
 
Chapter 8  
COMMUNICATIONS 
8.1.  Medical Communications.  AFSOC medical personnel must be able to communicate with 
other medics via secure intra-team radios, with other tactical SOF elements via secure line-of-sight 
communications, and with the SOTG, TSOC, and AFSOC headquarters via secure beyond-line-of-
sight communication as well as via secure and non-secure internet access.  AFSOC medical 
personnel should coordinate deployed communications requirements with SOG communications 
planners.  AFSOC medics cannot rely on conventional FOB support for its communications needs 
and must be prepared to deploy with communications capability. 
 
8.2.  Line-of-sight communications.  In general, AFSOC medics use the aircraft radios and/or the 
supported team’s radios.  However, they may require line-of-sight radios if working independently or 
with a small team.  During CASEVAC missions AFSOC medical personnel must have the capability 
to communicate with the CASEVAC aircrew from aid stations or medical facilities that are not 
necessarily adjacent to the runway during CASEVAC missions. 
 
8.3.  Over-the-horizon communications.  Normally, the SOFME uses aircraft or the supported 
team’s satellite communications (SATCOM).  However, the SOFME may require organic SATCOM 
radios, secure satellite phones, or secure capable cellular phones in special situations, such as when 
working independently or with a small team.  Standard operating procedure is to maintain 
connectivity with higher headquarters. 
 
8.4.  Internet access.  To maintain planning capacity, the AFSOC medics must have ready access to 
Secret Internet Protocol Router Network and Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network as 
available for email and portal access.  Medical operations planners should be able to access Top-
Secret platforms to accomplish mission analysis and planning. 
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
32 
 
 
Chapter 9  
OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
9.1.  ORM Utilization.  AFSOC medical personnel will utilize operational risk management when 
planning and executing training.  They will also use ORM for real world operations wherever they 
may be in the world to ensure the safety of AFSOC personnel and equipment.  AFSOC medics will 
provide clinical operations, quick medical focused reaction forces, advanced trauma life support, 
damage-control surgery, peri-operative resuscitation and CASEVAC aboard SOF aircraft or other 
opportune air, land, or sea platforms.  AFSOC medical personnel will be able to plan actions using 
risk mitigation to operate in semi and non-permissive threat environments, forward of established 
healthcare systems, to include outside the wire with BOS and security provided by the supported 
force.  All AFSOC operational medics will complete ORM training.  Every medical event or exercise 
planner will complete an ORM brief and include risks specific to medical training and operations.  
This will include submission of AF Form 4437 “Deliberate Risk Assessment Worksheet” or DD 
Form 2977 “Deliberate Risk Assessment Worksheet” for Joint operations.  The ORM will be 
assumed by the senior G-Series Commander.  The commander can seek advice from the senior 
medical officer at the unit, Group, Wing, or AFSOC/SG Risk Management Advisor if any concerns 
arise. 
 
9.2.  Risk Mitigation.  No pharmacologically active (expired or unexpired) medications are 
authorized to be present in training equipment kits when live human role players are serving as 
simulated patients as part of a training event.  Prior to the beginning of the training event all 
assemblages, bags and kits will be inspected by a minimum of two individuals to ensure no 
pharmacologically active medications can accidentally be introduced.  Training vials that are free of 
any active medication and safe for injection can be used.  These vials must consist of normal saline 
only and be clearly labeled to identify them for “training use only.” 
 
9.2.1.  Medication Management.  No pharmacologically active (expired or unexpired) or simulated 
medications will be injected through intravenous catheters or otherwise administered to live human 
role players serving as simulated patients as part of a training event. Injection of saline is only 
allowed when all other means of simulation have been exhausted or directly stated in specific 
Terminal and/or Enabling Learning Objectives (e.g. IV administration, flow/drip rate calculations).  
In this instance an intravenous line can be established and flushed with saline on a human role 
player.  The role player must consent utilizing the AFSOC approved Volunteer Patient Consent Form 
for Medical Exercises to the procedure and consent must documented appropriately.  Once the 
intravenous line has been successfully established, it will be discontinued or saline locked 
appropriately. 
 
9.2.2.  Real World Medical Care Distinction.  Primary medical support will be clearly identified 
for real world medical assistance and will not participate in the training event.  Primary medical 
support members are allowed to integrate with their respective teams operationally and tactically.  
Their medical equipment will be clearly marked and not utilized for training.  The medical response 
plan will be briefed and rehearsed before training events. 
 
9.3.  Operational Risk Mitigation Training.  Every AFSOC operational medic will complete ORM 
computer-based training within 60 days after reporting to first permanent duty station or assignment 
(120 days of initial duty station or assignment for AFR and ANG personnel).   
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
33 
 
 
 
9.3.1.  Risk Mitigation Training.  Risk mitigation training will be completed through approved Air 
Force computer-based training courses, standalone computer-based training courseware media, or 
equivalent courseware.  For mass briefings, presentations will be coordinated through MAJCOM RM 
process managers and the AF RM process manager. 
 
9.3.2.  Risk Mitigation Process Updates.  Individuals will periodically receive RM refresher 
briefings and presentations as directed by MAJCOM, wing or unit-level commanders. 
 
 
 
 
MATTHEW P. HANSON 
Colonel, USAF, MC, FS  
Command Surgeon  
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
34 
 
 
Attachment 1 
 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
References 
 
AFDP 3-05, Special Operation, 1 February 2020 
AFDP 4-02, Health Services, 12 November 2019 
AFH 44-152, Armed Services Blood Program – Joint Blood Program Handbook, 23 February 2017 
AFI 10-201, Force Readiness Reporting, 21 December 2020 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 27 July 2021 
AFI 41-106, Air Force Medical Readiness Program, 28 July 2020 
AFI 44-105, The Air Force Blood Program, 09 January 2019 
AFI 90-802, Risk Management, 01 April 2019 
AFMAN 11-2AEV1, Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Training, 6 December 2020 
AFMAN 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 3 January 2019 
AFSOCI 48-1010, Aeromedical Special Operations, 22 June 2022 
AFTTP 3-42.5, Aeromedical Evacuation (AE), 22 July 2019 
AFTTP 3-42.7, Aerospace Medical Contingency Ground Support System, 9 October 2013   
AFTTP 3-42.711, Blood Support Operations, 18 April 2013 
DAFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 24 March 2020 
DoDI 6480.4, Armed Services Blood Program (ASBP), 7 January 2022 
DoDI 1322.24, Medical Readiness Training, 15 February 2022 
JP 3-05, Special Operations, 22 September 2020 
JP 4-02, Joint Health Services, 28 September 2018 
USSOCOM D 10-1, Organizations and Functions, 4 January 2023  
 
Forms 
 
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
 
AE – Aeromedical Evacuation 
AFFORGEN – Air Force Force Generation 
AFRC – Air Force Reserve Command  
AFSOC – Air Force Special Operations Command  
AFSOF – Air Force Special Operations Forces 
AFTTP – Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
AMC – Air Mobility Command  
ANG – Air National Guard 
AOR – Area of Responsibility  
ARC – Air Reserve Components  
AS – Allowance Standard  
ATLS – Advanced Trauma Life Support  
ATTU – Air Transportable Treatment Unit  
BOS – Base Operating Support 
C2 – Command and Control  
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
35 
 
 
CASEVAC – Casualty Evacuation 
CCDR – Combatant Commander 
CCMD – Combatant Commander 
CL – Contingency Location 
CSAR – Combat Search and Rescue 
DA – Direct Action 
DCR – Damage Control Resuscitation 
DCS – Damage Control Surgery 
DLA – Defense Logistics Agency 
DNBI – Disease Non-Battlefield Injury  
DOD – Department of Defense 
DODI – Department of Defense Instruction  
ECS – Expeditionary Combat Support 
EMEDS – Expeditionary Medical Support 
FOB – Forward Operating Base  
FOS – Forward Operating Site 
HN – Host Nation 
HSS – Health Service Support  
IAW – In Accordance With 
SOIDMT – Special Operations Independent Duty Medical Technician  
JSOC – Joint Special Operations Command 
JSOTF – Joint Special Operations Task Force 
JTF – Joint Task Force 
MAJCOM – Major Command 
MISCAP – Mission Capability Statement 
MMC – Medical Material Centers 
MTF – Medical Treatment Facility 
NCO – Noncommissioned Officer 
OPCON – Operational Control 
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility  
OSM – Operations Support Medical  
PA – Physician Assistant 
PAR – Population at Risk  
PJ – Pararescue Specialist 
PMI – Patient Movement Items 
PMRC – Patient Movement Requirement Center  
PN – Partner Nations 
PR – Personnel Recovery 
RRDK – Rapid Response Deployment Kit  
SATCOM – Satellite Communications  
SEAL – Sea-Air-Land 
SecDef – Secretary of Defense 
SG – Surgeon General 
SGP – Chief Aerospace Medicine 
SOF – Special Operations Forces 
SOFME – Special Operations Forces Medical Element 
SOG – Special Operations Group 
SOJTF – Special Operations Joint Task Force 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
36 
 
 
SOMDG – Special Operations Medical Group  
SOSS – Special Operations Support Squadron  
SOST – Special Operations Surgical Team 
SOW– Special Operations Wing 
SR – Special Reconnaissance  
TCCC – Tactical Combat Casualty Care 
TLAMM – Theater Lead Agent for Medical Material  
TSOC/SG – Theater Special Operations/Command Surgeon  
TSOC – Theater Special Operations Command  
TTP – Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
USAMMC – United States Army Medical Materiel Center  
USAF – United States Air Force 
USEUCOM – United States European Command  
USNORTHCOM – United States Northern Command  
USFK – United States Forces Korea 
USSOCOM – United States Special Operations Command  
USSOUTHCOM – Untied States Southern Command 
UTC – Unit Type Code 
WRM – War Reserve Materiel 
 
Terms 
 
Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) – The movement of patients under medical supervision to and  
between medical treatment facilities by air transportation. (Source: JP 4-02) 
 
Casualty Evacuation (CASEVAC) – The unregulated movement of casualties that can include 
movement both to and between medical treatment facilities (Source: JP 4-02).  Movement of patients 
using any vehicle of opportunity (to include fixed wing assets) from either the point of injury and/or 
a transload site to a higher level of medical care or a regulated patient movement system. 
 
Damage Control Surgery (DCS) – Surgery that is required to save life or limb and to stabilize a 
patient for transport. 
 
Medical Evacuation– The timely, efficient movement and en route care by medical personnel of the 
wounded, injured, or ill persons from the battlefield and/or other locations to and between MTFs.  
MEDEVAC is conducted with dedicated ground and air ambulances, properly marked and employed 
in accordance with the Geneva Conventions and the law of war.  MEDEVAC involves the movement 
of both unregulated and regulated patients. (Source: JP 4-02) 
 
Patient Movement Items (PMI) – The medical equipment and supplies required to support patients 
during aeromedical evacuation, which is part of a standardized list of approved safe-to-fly 
equipment. (Source: JP 4-02) 
 
Pararescue Team – Specially trained personnel qualified to penetrate to the site of an incident by 
air, land or sea, render medical aid, accomplish survival methods and rescue survivors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AFTTP3-42.6  22 JUNE 2023 
 
37 
 
 
Special Operations Forces (SOF) – Those Active and Reserve Component forces of the Services 
designated by the SecDef and specifically organized, trained, and equipped to conduct and support 
special operations. (Source: JP 3-05) 
 
Stabilized Patient – A patient whose airway is secured, hemorrhage is controlled, shock treated, and 
fractures are immobilized. (Source: JP 4-02) 
 
Transload – Transfer of casualties from one form of conveyance to another.  Examples would be 
using an MC-130 or SF ground vehicle to CV-22, to facilitate casualty evacuation from forward 
areas.  A transload also implies that casualty care is transferred from one team to another.  This 
function can be performed across the spectrum of permissive, denied or hostile environments. 
