DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, 
RECONNAISSANCE & CYBER EFFECTS OPERATIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DAFGM2024-14-01 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 SEPTEMBER 2024 
 
 
 
 
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C 
                                         MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs/FOAs/DRUs 
 
 
 
FROM:  HQ USAF A2/6  
 
1700 Air Force Pentagon, Room 4E1070 
 
Washington, DC 20330-1700 
 
SUBJECT:  Headquarters Air Force Guidance Memorandum Establishing Proper Use of 
Commercially Available Information for Air Force Intelligence Missions 
 
References:  See annex D. 
By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum is the first 
instance of a to-be published Air Force (AF) publication that establishes AF Intelligence policies 
and procedures to comply with the Intelligence Community (IC) Commercially Available 
Information (CAI) Policy Framework, reference (a), issued by the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence (ODNI) in May 2024. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory.  
To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other AF publications, the information herein 
prevails, in accordance with Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) 90-160, 
Publications and Forms Management.   
This guidance is applicable to all personnel conducting intelligence or intelligence-related 
activities, to include civilian employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, the 
Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard, as well as those contractually obligated to 
comply with Headquarters Air Force (HAF) publications. Air National Guard personnel and 
units are excluded from this guidance while not in a federalized status supporting an intelligence 
mission. This publication does not apply to the United States Space Force. Additional policy 
guidance on the use of CAI within the Department of Defense (DoD) for all cross-functional 
communities is also expected to be forthcoming. 
CAI provides a rapidly growing and fundamentally essential source of information for 
answering intelligence requirements and information needs for today’s data-driven intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) missions.  However, this data risks unintentional 
exposure of U.S. persons information (USPI) if used without protections to safeguard privacy 
and civil liberties.  This memorandum reinforces policies meant to protect the USPI and 
personally identifiable information (PII) of U.S. persons likely available in Sensitive CAI 
datasets, as defined in Annex C. Additionally, this memorandum designates the Air Force 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance Operations Directorate (AF/A2/6O) as the OPR for 
CAI Policy, Management, and Reporting. 
Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere 
to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule 
which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.   
This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this 
memorandum, or upon publishing of a new publication permanently establishing this guidance, 
whichever is earlier. 
 
 
LEAH G. LAUDERBACK, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,  
    Surveillance and Reconnaissance and  
    Cyber Effects Operations 
 
 
Attachments: 
1. Proper Use of CAI for AF Intelligence Missions 
2. Annexes A-D 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 1 
 
Proper Use of CAI for AF Intelligence Missions 
 
1. Overview.  
 
1.1.  In accordance with the IC CAI Policy Framework, reference (a), any units collecting or 
accessing CAI while conducting intelligence or intelligence-related activities, will: 
 
1.1.1.   Ensure CAI collection activities are in support of  their authorized intelligence 
missions with supporting documentation, in accordance with references (a), (b), (c), 
(d), and (g). 
 
1.1.2.   In conjunction with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for CAI Policy, 
Management, and Reporting, assess all CAI acquisitions for sensitivity, as outlined 
in Annex A, in accordance with reference (a). 
 
1.1.3.   Ensure access controls are applied, appropriate to the level of sensitivity of the 
CAI, as outlined in Annex A, in accordance with references (a), (b), (e), and (f). 
1.1.4.   Collect USPI, including Sensitive CAI, only when the information is reasonably 
believed to be necessary for the performance of the unit’s stated intelligence 
mission or function, in accordance with references (a) and (b).  
1.1.5.   Comply with appropriate records keeping standards.  For collection of or access to 
Sensitive CAI, units will document the information required in the CAI utilization 
process outlined in Annex A, in accordance with references (a), (b), (e), and (f). 
1.1.6.   Catalogue all CAI acquisitions and licenses within the IC Data Catalogue, at a 
minimum, in accordance with reference (a). 
1.1.7.   Share CAI-derived products and non-sensitive, raw CAI data in compliance with 
established policy guidelines, Foreign Disclosure Offices (FDO) processes, and 
other applicable Intelligence Community Directives (ICD) and Department of 
Defense (DoD) policies, in accordance with references (a), (c), (d), (h), (i), (j), (k), 
(l), and (n). 
1.1.8.   Limit the sharing of raw Sensitive CAI to those with appropriate mission 
authorities and an approved utilization agreement, in accordance with reference (a). 
1.1.9.   Apply strict data security standards for data enclaves used to store, even 
temporarily, CAI data sets.  CAI data determined to be Sensitive CAI will be 
maintained in systems that implement the appropriate privacy control standards and 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
achieve authorization to operate (ATO), in accordance with references (a), (c), (m), 
(o), and (p). 
1.1.10. Employ the CAI acquisition agreement process outlined in Annex A , to include 
reviews by servicing legal offices, civil liberties and privacy offices, and systems 
security offices, for all new and renewing CAI data acquisitions and licenses in 
accordance with reference (a). 
1.1.11. Employ the utilization agreement process outlined in Annex A to authorize new 
unit access to existing CAI data acquisitions and licenses and to ensure that CAI 
data is only used for legitimate intelligence mission purposes using appropriate 
safeguards and data handling procedures, in accordance with reference (a). 
1.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) designates the Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance 
Operations Directorate (AF/A2/6O) as the OPR for CAI Policy, Management, and 
Reporting. 
1.3.  Units conducting intelligence or intelligence-related activities will have six months from 
the date of signature of this memorandum to enact policies to comply with this guidance.  
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this GM are identified with a 
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following each compliance statement.  See DAFMAN 
90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, for a description of the authorities 
associated with the Tier designators.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of 
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or to the OPR for non-tiered 
compliance items.   
2.  Responsibilities. 
2.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence Surveillance, and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) will: 
2.1.1.  Program funds through the Department of Defense Intelligence Planning, 
Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (IPPBE) process to support AF CAI 
requirements.  These will include, but are not limited to, the baseline funding to 
support the acquisition of necessary CAI capabilities, safeguards to protect Sensitive 
CAI, and approval and oversight mechanisms to perform the tasks outlined in 
Appendix 2 of this guidance memorandum. 
2.1.2.  Designate the appropriate staff elements to oversee the management, development, 
coordination, and implementation of this guidance memorandum. 
2.1.3.  Provide annual reporting on AF Intelligence access, licensing, and acquisition of 
Sensitive CAI to DoD and ODNI. 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Director for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance Operations Directorate 
(AF/A2/6O) will: 
2.2.1.  Maintain oversight of and provide guidance for AF Intelligence access, licensing, 
and acquisition of CAI across the force. 
2.2.2.  Execute appropriate funds to acquire necessary CAI capabilities; provide 
mechanisms for rapid analysis, review, and approval of CAI and Sensitive CAI; and 
establish safeguards to protect Sensitive CAI. 
2.2.3.  Establish and maintain policies and procedures for implementing the guidance in 
reference (a). 
2.2.4.  Implement processes to review and, where appropriate, approve CAI accesses, 
licensing, and acquisitions to verify 1) elements have the requisite intelligence 
mission requirements or administrative needs for the data; 2) elements have the 
legal authority to access or acquire the data; 3) the sensitivity of the data, as per 
Annex A of this guidance memorandum; 4) the privacy and civil liberties risks 
associated with the data; 5) the techniques in place to mitigate privacy and civil 
liberties risks; 6) the data sources, integrity, and quality of the dataset; 7) the 
security risks associated with the data; and 8) any techniques in place to mitigate 
security risks. 
2.2.4.1.  Periodically review assessments annually to ensure that intelligence mission 
requirements remain current, and safeguards remain sufficient for assessed 
level of CAI sensitivity. 
2.2.5.  To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that vendors safeguard queries and other AF 
information, prohibiting their sharing, selling, transmission, or storage beyond the 
duration specified in the contract. Furthermore, such information should not be used 
for any purpose other than auditing. 
2.2.5.1.  Whenever feasible, request vendors verify that the security of their data 
repositories meets industry standards, determine who has access to their data 
repositories, and ensure the repositories are not located in areas subject to 
inspection or access by key strategic competitors, pacing challenges, or other 
entities of concern. 
2.2.6.  Establish and maintain an accessible repository for AF CAI policy, references, and 
templates. 
 
2.2.7.  Within one year of this memorandum, develop guidance pertaining to the auditing 
of CAI. 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
 
2.2.8.  Maintain records on all CAI collection, processing, and safeguard measures for 
one year after the generating intelligence requirement is discontinued or superseded, 
as per reference (q). 
2.2.9.  Prepare an annual report on AF intelligence access, licensing, and acquisition of 
Sensitive CAI for ODNI. 
2.2.10.  Work with AF Privacy Office to ensure System of Records Notice (SORN) 
updated to reflect Sensitive CAI accesses, licenses, and acquisitions. 
2.3.  Commander, Sixteenth Air Force; Commander, National Air and Space 
Intelligence Center (NASIC); and Major Command (MAJCOM) Commanders 
will: 
2.3.1.  Ensure that the access, acquisition, and licensing of CAI in support of intelligence 
functions are accomplished in accordance with the constraints of this guidance 
memorandum. (T-2) 
2.3.2.  Communicate CAI requirements for intelligence functions to the AF OPR for CAI 
Policy, Management, and Reporting, in addition to AF/A2/6, Air Combat Command 
(ACC)/ Intelligence Directorate (A2), and NASIC, as appropriate, as outlined in 
reference (g). (T-2) 
2.3.3.  Coordinate with servicing legal office, Intelligence oversight (IO) office, and civil 
liberties and privacy office (CLPO) personnel to review authorities, mission 
requirements, and privacy implications for Sensitive CAI access, licensing, or 
acquisition. (T-2) 
2.3.4.  Notify, and use as an information resource, the AF OPR for CAI, Policy, 
Management, and Reporting for the access, licensing, and acquisition of CAI by 
intelligence elements. (T-2) 
2.3.4.1.  Support the pre-acquisition and pre-utilization analysis of CAI access, 
licensing, or acquisitions in support of MAJCOM intelligence requirements. 
(T-2) 
2.3.5.  Store collected Sensitive CAI only on approved networks with an approved ATO 
and the appropriate privacy control overlay. (T-2) 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
7 
 
 
 
 
Attachment 2 
Annex A 
 
CAI Process 
 
CAI Approval Process.  To ensure compliance with this policy, units must complete the 
following process before acquiring or licensing CAI data, and annually thereafter for Sensitive 
CAI. Not Sensitive CAI must be reviewed every three years. For Not Sensitive CAI determined 
to be static, to include books and datasets that have been downloaded onto a USG system 
without the capacity for changes to the data, periodic review is not required. If collecting USPI 
or Sensitive CAI, units must also ensure collected CAI meets one of the categories outlined in 
Procedure 2 of reference (b): 
1.  Establish authority to access and collect CAI. 
1.1.  Verify authority to collect CAI is clearly stated within applicable mission directives, 
execute orders (EXORDS), or operation orders (OPORDS), and other means of official 
tasking, such as Requests for Support (RFS). 
1.2.  Ensure approved concept of operations (CONOP) exists that characterizes the mission, 
authorities, intended outcomes, operations execution, and nature of the CAI to be used.  
See CONOP template in Annex B. 
2.  Perform sensitivity analysis of the CAI data in question. 
2.1.  CAI sensitivity analysis will be performed before acquisition, in coordination with the 
OPR for CAI Policy, Management, and Reporting in support of acquiring elements. 
2.2.  CAI is considered sensitive if the CAI is purchased from a commercial entity through a 
commercial transaction for a fee or made available by the commercial entity at no cost 
through a commercial transaction that normally would involve a fee (e.g., a free trial 
offering of CAI); and the CAI is known or reasonably expected to contain:  
2.2.1.  a substantial volume of personally identifiable information (PII) regarding U.S. 
persons; or  
2.2.2.  a greater than de minimis volume of: 
2.2.2.1.  sensitive data, which is defined as data that captures personal attributes, 
conditions, or identifiers that are traceable to one or more specific U.S. 
persons, either through the dataset itself or by correlating the dataset with other 
available information; and that concerns the U.S. person’s or U.S. persons’ race 
or ethnicity, political opinions, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, medical or genetic information, financial data, or any other data the 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
8 
 
 
 
 
disclosure of which would have a similar potential to cause substantial harm, 
embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to the U.S. person or U.S. 
persons described by the data; or 
2.2.2.2.  data that captures the sensitive activities of U.S. persons or persons in the 
United States, with sensitive activities defined as activities that over an 
extended period of time establish a pattern of life; reveal personal affiliations, 
preferences, or identifiers; facilitate prediction of future acts; enable targeting 
activities; reveal the exercise of individual rights and freedoms (including the 
rights to freedom of speech and of the press, to free exercise of religion, to 
peaceable assembly—including membership or participation in organizations 
or associations—and to petition the government); or reveal any other activity 
the disclosure of which could cause substantial harm, embarrassment, 
inconvenience, or unfairness to the U.S. person or person in the United States 
who engaged in the activity. 
2.2.2.3.  Notwithstanding the above criteria, Sensitive CAI does not include: 
2.2.2.3.1.  newspapers or other periodicals; weather reports; books, journal 
articles, or other published works; public filings or records; or similar 
documents or databases, whether accessed through a subscription or 
accessible free of cost; or 
2.2.2.3.2.  limited data samples made available so an IC element can evaluate 
whether to purchase the full dataset and not accessed, retained, or used 
for any other purpose unless assessed in accordance with Section II.B of 
this Policy Framework. 
2.3.  This sensitivity analysis and the other requirements of this policy only apply to the 
acquisition and use of CAI materials. The use of publicly available information (PAI) 
that does not meet the definition of CAI or Sensitive CAI requires management under 
intelligence oversight policies and safeguards but does not require sensitivity analysis or 
the special handling safeguards outlined below. 
2.4.  The AF uses the spectrum model, depicted in figure 1.  This model is consistent with the 
definition of Sensitive CAI above.  During sensitivity analysis, analysts will assess the 
degree of sensitivity as per the Data Sensitivity Analysis template in Annex B.  Units 
should apply the safeguards described in Step 5 below. 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
9 
 
 
 
 
2.4.1.  Data sensitivity considerations during sensitivity analysis. 
2.4.1.1.  Amount of USPI or PII about U.S. Persons within the dataset.  
2.4.1.1.1.  Datasets without any USPI or PII about U.S. Persons are, by definition, 
not Sensitive CAI. 
2.4.1.1.2.  Datasets primarily about foreign persons but with negligible amounts 
of USPI, by volume and percentage, would likely not be Sensitive CAI 
but would still require appropriate marking, retention, and dissemination 
controls under Intelligence Oversight program guidelines. 
2.4.1.1.3.  Datasets may be characterized as Moderately Sensitive, Highly 
Sensitive, or Extremely Sensitive depending on the absolute volume, 
type, or percentage of USPI or PII about U.S. Persons in the dataset. 
2.4.1.1.4.  Datasets primarily composed of USPI or PII about U.S. Persons, or 
including protected data types such as protected health information (PHI), 
Not USPI 
Not  
Sensitive CAI 
 
Moderately 
Sensitive CAI 
Highly  
Sensitive CAI 
Extremely  
Sensitive CAI 
• Does not contain 
USPI or PII about U.S. 
Persons 
• Negligible amount of 
USPI or PII about U.S. 
Persons 
• Published works 
• Public social media 
posts in true name 
• Public records or filings 
• Does not include data 
from within U.S. 
geographical area 
• Moderate amount of 
USPI or PII about U.S. 
Persons 
• Data includes some 
records from U.S. 
geographical areas 
• Public social media 
posts under associated 
username 
• General location data 
• Large amount of USPI 
or PII about U.S. 
Persons, by percent or 
absolute #s 
• Data includes U.S. 
geographic area 
• Precise location data 
• Demographics info 
• Primarily contains USPI 
or PII about U.S. Persons 
• Data primarily from 
sources inside the U.S. 
• Persistent location data 
• Medical information 
• Financial data 
• Biometric data 
• Data about expressions 
of guaranteed rights 
Safeguards 
Safeguards 
Safeguards 
Safeguards 
Safeguards 
• Basic data handling 
protocols 
• Pre-acquisition CLPO 
and legal review 
• CAI assessment 
• Sourcing, methods, 
integrity, quality, 
biases or inferences 
• Document to IC Data 
Catalog 
• Intel oversight 
Requirements 
• Access restrictions  
(by organization) 
• Query audits 
• CLPO and legal review 
every three years 
 
• Plus earlier safeguards 
• Pre-use mission and 
authority review 
• Query limits (policy or 
technical controls) 
• Annual CLPO and Legal 
review  
• Filtering, as appropriate 
• Geographic 
• Algorithm-based USPI 
• Full anonymization 
 
• Plus earlier safeguards 
• Strict access 
restrictions (by name) 
• Dissemination controls 
• Pre-dissemination 
CLPO and legal reviews 
• Written CONOP for 
approved CAI use 
• Automated masking 
processes, where 
feasible 
 
• Plus earlier safeguards 
• Query pre-approvals 
 
• Plus earlier safeguards 
 
Figure 1 – AF Data Sensitivity Spectrum Model. 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
10 
 
 
 
 
financial records, or private demographics data, are always characterized 
as Extremely Sensitive. 
2.4.1.2.  Type of USPI or PII about U.S. Persons within the dataset. 
2.4.1.2.1.  USPI that would not meet the definition of PII would typically be 
considered less sensitive than other forms of sensitive data. 
2.4.1.2.2.  Personally or professionally published material, such as published 
works, social media posts published in true name without privacy 
controls, or public records and filings, should not be characterized as 
Sensitive CAI, but would still require safeguards under intelligence 
oversight policy. 
2.4.1.2.2.1.  PAI that does not meet the definition of CAI, including public and 
freely available posts by commercial entities, should be handled in 
accordance with intelligence oversight policy requirement but does 
not require any special handling under this memorandum. 
2.4.1.2.3.  Commercially purchased material published or posted in social media 
anonymously or under a username, when tied to original creators, would 
be characterized as Moderately Sensitive or Highly Sensitive, depending 
on the nature of the information posted. 
2.4.1.3.  Datasets that do not include U.S. geographic locations or prefilter to remove 
U.S. geographic locations would be characterized as Not USPI, Not Sensitive, 
or Moderately Sensitive, depending on the other factors considered. 
2.4.1.3.1.  Datasets that include only general location data within the U.S. would 
be considered Moderately Sensitive while datasets that offer precise 
location data would be considered Highly Sensitive.  Datasets that offer 
persistent location data within the U.S. would be characterized as 
Extremely Sensitive. 
2.4.1.4.  Datasets that present significant demographics information about U.S. 
persons would always be characterized as Highly Sensitive, at a minimum.  
Demographics information includes, but is not limited to, sex, race, age, 
religion, and registered political parties. 
2.4.1.4.1.  Information that would depict associations, political opinions, gender 
identities, sexual orientation, or other personal information that could 
raise cause for discrimination or adverse public opinion about a U.S. 
Person would always be characterized as Extremely Sensitive. 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
11 
 
 
 
 
2.4.1.4.2.  Datasets which present pattern of life information, data about the 
exercise of constitutionally protected rights by U.S. persons, U.S. 
persons’ private financial records, medical or genetic information of U.S. 
persons, or biometric data about U.S. persons, would be characterized as 
Extremely Sensitive. 
2.5.  While sensitivity analysis is mission, directorate, and unit specific, new units or 
directorates requesting access to existing datasets should accept existing sensitivity 
analysis unless specific mission parameters necessitate a review. 
2.6.  Data purchased prior to the issuance of this memorandum will require a sensitivity 
analysis to be completed within one year, unless excepted in writing by the AF OPR for 
CAI Policy, Management, and Reporting. 
3.  Complete Pre-Acquisition or Pre-Utilization Assessment 
3.1.  Prior to acquisition of CAI, units must notify and coordinate with the AF OPR for CAI 
Policy, Management, and Reporting to complete the following pre-acquisition 
assessment checklist items.  Units can delegate in writing the approval and signature of 
pre-acquisition checklists to the O5 or squadron commander level for Sensitive CAI 
sources and to any appropriate level for CAI sources deemed not to contain Sensitive 
CAI. 
3.1.1.  If exigent circumstances exist to allow for acquisition of CAI without following 
the below procedures, units will document those circumstances in a memorandum 
signed by the first GO-level officer, or officially delegated O6, in their chain of 
command.  Exigency generally requires an immediate need to acquire, access, or 
collect information when circumstances do not allow for the time it takes to follow 
the procedures outlined in this memorandum.  See Exigent Circumstances template 
in Annex B. 
3.1.1.1.  Units will complete the procedures outlined below promptly after collection 
or access. 
3.1.1.2.  All activities in all circumstances must be carried out in a manner consistent 
with the Constitution and laws of the United States, applicable executive 
orders, and DoD Manual 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD 
Intelligence Activities, 8 Aug 2016. 
3.1.2.  Perform a source assessment of the CAI vendor.  
3.1.2.1.  For traditionally published works, determine to the maximum amount 
feasible: 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
12 
 
 
 
 
3.1.2.1.1.  The publication’s authenticity and veracity.  
3.1.2.1.2.  In consultation with servicing legal office, the licensing agreements 
under which the content is shared or distributed. 
3.1.2.2.  For all other types of CAI, use the Pre-Acquisition Questionnaire template in 
Annex B to determine to the maximum extent feasible: 
3.1.2.2.1.  The original sources of vendor data, as feasible, depending on the 
nature of the AF relationship with the vendor and the security 
requirements of the contract. 
3.1.2.2.2.  How the vendor collects, aggregates, processes, enhances, and makes 
available the data in their data sets. 
3.1.2.2.3.  The integrity and quality of their CAI, to include underlying biases or 
inferences and consistency with standards for accuracy and objectivity, 
with a focus on the reliability of the information. 
3.1.2.2.4.  Vendor ability to apply geographic, USPI, or other applicable 
prefiltering. 
3.1.2.2.5.  Vendor confidentiality standards, to include safeguarding of queries, 
data accesses, and download records. 
3.1.2.2.6.  Security, operational, and counterintelligence risks associated with 
accessing or collecting any Sensitive CAI from the vendor, along with 
steps to mitigate those risks, to include which other IC elements could be 
using the same vendor to access the same data, creating a pattern of use 
that may expose operational imperatives. 
 
3.1.3.  Perform due diligence checks on vendors and vendor processes, sources, and 
associated personnel to ensure that vendor is not engaged in activities that could 
cause damage to the credibility of the AF with the public or allies.  Information from 
the Pre-Acquisition Questionnaire template in Annex B may provide some of this 
information, but units should leverage existing Department of the Air Force and 
DoD capabilities to perform due diligence activities when possible.   This includes 
checks that: 
3.1.3.1.  Vendor is not currently engaged in legal proceedings with the U.S. 
government that could negatively impact AF credibility or result in an eventual 
loss of capability or service upon outcome of that proceeding; 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
13 
 
 
 
 
3.1.3.2.  Vendor has not been banned from operating in any part of the U.S., U.S. 
Territories, NATO ally countries, or FVEY partner territories; and 
3.1.3.3.  Vendor does not have a pattern of export law violations, substantiated 
violations of U.S. privacy and civil liberties statues or laws, relevant legal 
challenges in U.S. courts, or restrictions from use or operations within the U.S. 
or its territories.  Negative press does not equate to an unfavorable situation. 
3.1.3.4.  For Sensitive CAI, due diligence checks will be performed annually, 
otherwise, due diligence checks are only required before acquisition.  If units 
become aware of information that could make the continued use of unfavorable 
to the AF, they will coordinate with IO, CLPO, legal, and higher echelons as 
required to adjudicate continued use of the vendor or product. 
3.1.4.  Where the nature of the contractual relationship with the vendor and the security 
requirements of the contract allows, ensure contracts specify that: 
3.1.4.1.  Queries will not be shared, sold, transmitted, stored for longer than the 
duration of the contract states, or used for any other purpose beyond that of 
auditing; and  
3.1.4.2.  Vendors will verify that the security of their data repositories meet industry 
standards and are not located in areas subject to inspection or access by key 
strategic competitors, pacing challenges, or other entities of concern.  See Pre-
Acquisition Questionnaire template in Annex B. 
3.1.5.  Obtain a legal review from the servicing legal office to assess applicable unit 
authorities and unit compliance with other policy requirements.  See Pre-
Acquisition Approval Memorandum template in Annex B. 
3.1.6.  For Sensitive CAI, complete a CLPO and IO officer review from servicing offices 
to ensure adequate unit safeguards for level of assessed data sensitivity.  See Pre-
Acquisition Approval Memorandum template in Annex B. 
3.1.7.  Perform a systems security review to ensure data repositories owned or operated 
by the Air Force meet required security standards to safeguard PII and Sensitive 
CAI.  See Pre-Acquisition Approval Memorandum template in Annex B. 
3.2.  After acquisition of CAI, additional units that wish to gain access to the data set must 
have completed the following pre-utilization assessment checklist items at the unit and 
not the individual level.  Units can delegate in writing the approval and signature of pre-
utilization checklists to the O5 or squadron commander level for Sensitive CAI sources 
and to any appropriate level for CAI sources deemed not to contain Sensitive CAI.  See 
Pre-Utilization Approval Memorandum template in Annex B. 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
14 
 
 
 
 
3.2.1.  Review the vendor source assessment performed prior to acquisition. 
3.2.2.  Perform a legal review to assess applicable unit authorities and unit compliance 
with other policy requirements. 
3.2.3.  When Sensitive CAI is present, complete a CLPO and IO review to ensure 
adequate safeguards for the assessed level of data sensitivity.  CLPO and IO 
elements are expected to review administrative controls while offering advice on 
necessary technical controls. 
3.2.4.  Perform a systems security review to ensure data repositories meet required 
security standards to safeguard PII and Sensitive CAI. 
4.  Prepare annual report to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) of all 
Sensitive CAI holdings, collections, and accesses. 
4.1.  AF OPR for CAI Policy, Management, and Reporting will prepare the report using the 
template provided by ODNI. 
4.1.1.  At a minimum this report will include: 
4.1.1.1.  the purpose of the access, collection, or processing, and intended uses of the 
Sensitive CAI; 
4.1.1.2.  the nature or characterization, and volume, of the Sensitive CAI access or 
collection; 
4.1.1.3.  authority under which the Sensitive CAI is accessed, collected, or processed; 
4.1.1.4.  the source of the Sensitive CAI and from whom the Sensitive CAI was 
accessed or collected; 
4.1.1.5.  the mechanics of the access, collection, and processing the Sensitive CAI; 
4.1.1.6.  offices which participated in the acquisition process, conduced the source 
assessment, and approved the acquisition; 
4.1.1.7.  if applicable, the basis for relying on the exigent circumstances exception;  
4.1.1.8.  the policies and procedures for safeguarding the Sensitive CAI;  
4.1.1.9.  whether the vendor has made unevaluated data or information available to 
any other IC elements or foreign partners and, if so, which elements or 
partners; and  
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
15 
 
 
 
 
4.1.1.10.  any licensing agreements, terms of agreement, or contract restrictions 
applicable to the Sensitive CAI. 
4.1.2.  Document CAI collection within the IC Data Catalog.  
5.  Safeguard access to CAI.   
5.1.  Safeguarding access to CAI will incorporate both technical and administrative controls 
to ensure the appropriate level of safeguards as data sensitivity increases.  Some types 
and categories of data may have additional safeguards that are already directed by other 
policies, statutes, security classification guides (SCGs), and instructions.  Data owners 
will establish specific details of the necessary safeguards based on the assessed level of 
sensitivity, but based on the proposed measures outlined below. 
5.1.1.  All CAI, including CAI determined to be Not USPI will apply at a minimum the 
following safeguards: 
5.1.1.1.  Apply basic data handling protocols. 
5.1.1.2.  Complete source assessment, as per Step 3. 
5.1.1.3.  Classify collected CAI in accordance with an applicable security 
classification guide (SCG). 
5.1.1.3.1.  Many forms of data may be unclassified when collected or purchased, 
however depending on the organization’s SCG and authorities under 
which the CAI is collected the classification and dissemination or sharing 
restriction may vary greatly. 
5.1.1.4.  Apply normal dissemination controls in accordance with classification 
guidance and FDO process. 
5.1.2.  CAI determined not to be Sensitive CAI while still containing USPI or PII about 
U.S. Persons will apply at a minimum the safeguards outlined in 5.1.1.  In addition 
to those safeguards, the following safeguards will also apply: 
5.1.2.1.  Abide by USPI and information marking requirements. 
5.1.2.2.  Apply appropriate data repository security controls, including the 
requirement for a privacy overlay for PII and PHI outlined in NIST SP 800-53 
and current ATO. 
5.1.2.3.  Develop and maintain a CONOP for approved CAI use. These CONOPs can 
be organic to the unit or specify supporting units CONOP. 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
16 
 
 
 
 
5.1.2.4.  Restrict access to data by organization and mission, to include controls on 
raw data sharing and a unit-level pre-dissemination review for USPI. 
5.1.2.5.  Perform audits on queries and access in accordance with the type and 
sensitivity of the CAI being used. 
5.1.2.6.  Servicing CLPO, IO and legal offices conduct a periodic review every three 
years.  See Annual Review Approval Memorandum template in Annex B.  
5.1.2.6.1.  For Not Sensitive CAI determined to be static, periodic review is not 
required. This can include books, periodicals, and other published works 
that are not updated, as well as datasets that are downloaded onto a USG 
system without further updates. The determination that CAI is static will 
be made by the acquiring unit.  
5.1.3.  CAI determined to be Moderately Sensitive will apply at a minimum the 
safeguards outlined in 5.1.1. and 5.1.2.  In addition to those safeguards, the 
following safeguards will also apply: 
5.1.3.1.  Conduct a pre-use mission and authority review, as per Step 3. 
5.1.3.2.  Apply administrative or technical controls on queries that users can perform. 
5.1.3.3.  Employ filtering, on vendor systems or at a processing stage between the 
data repository and the user interface. Filters can include:  
5.1.3.3.1.  geographic filters to prevent searches or data returns within the US and 
its territories;  
5.1.3.3.2.  algorithm-based USPI filters; or  
5.1.3.3.3.  full anonymization to mask all PII unless units request specific 
individual’s records be demasked. 
5.1.4.  CAI determined to be Highly Sensitive will apply at a minimum the safeguards 
outlined in 5.1.1., 5.1.2., and 5.1.3.  In addition to those safeguards, the following 
safeguards will also apply: 
5.1.4.1.  Vendor must abide by confidentiality standards set forth in 3.1.4.1. 
5.1.4.2.  Pre-dissemination CLPO, IO, or legal reviews, as required for the specific 
Sensitive CAI. 
5.1.4.3.  Automated masking processes, where feasible. 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
17 
 
 
 
 
5.1.4.4.  Strict, individual access restrictions based on zero-trust security standards, 
when feasible. 
5.1.5.  CAI Determined Extremely Sensitive will apply at a minimum the safeguards 
outlined in 5.1.1., 5.1.2., 5.1.3, and 5.1.4.  In addition to those safeguards, the 
following safeguards will also apply: 
5.1.5.1.  Establish process for query pre-approvals, signed the first available 
O6/GG15 within the chain of command.  See Query Pre-approval 
Memorandum template in Annex B. 
5.1.5.1.1.  Approved queries can be multiple use for the authorized time duration; 
however, but the same query nexus or key words must be used. 
5.1.5.1.2.  Queries must be specific in nature to minimize excess collection on 
USPI. 
6.  Records Management Requirements 
6.1.  Units should have in place procedures that require data management planning from the 
point of access or collection, throughout the data lifecycle, to disposition, in accordance 
with reference (b) and instructions in AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 Jun 
2012 and the Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) published at 
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. 
6.2.  The AF OPR for CAI Policy, Management, and Reporting will ensure that AF Systems 
of Records Notices (SORNs) are updated to reflect the Sensitive CAI holdings or 
accesses available to the AF. 
7.  Disputes 
7.1.  Disputes in the handling of CAI sensitivity analysis during the approval processes will 
be adjudicated by the AF OPR for CAI Policy, Management, and Reporting or the next 
higher office in the chain of command. 
7.1.1.  Disputes in the legal, CLPO, IO, or security office review will be adjudicated 
through the legal, CLPO, IO, or security channels respectively. 
7.2.  Violations of these procedures, handling requirements, or the safeguard processes 
outlined for all CAI and Sensitive CAI will be treated and investigated as a questionable 
intelligence activity (QIA). 
 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
18 
 
 
 
 
Annex B 
 
Templates 
CONOP (Memorandum Format) Template 
[Letterhead] 
DATE 
 
(U) CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS: UNIT and ACTIVITY 
 
FROM: Unit 
 
Address 
 
City, State, Zip Code 
 
References: (a)  DoDD 3115.18, DoD Access to and Use of Publicly Available Information 
(PAI) 
(b)  DoDI 3115.12, Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) 
(c)  IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
(d)  DoDM 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence 
Activities 
(e)  AFI 14-404, Oversight of Intelligence Activities 
(f)  AFMAN 14-405, Multiple Source, Discipline, and Domain Intelligence, 
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) 
(g)  [Mission Directive] 
(h)  [all other applicable references] 
 
1. (U) Situation  
1. [Give brief introduction or overview.] 
 
2. (U) Mission. 
a. [Mission Statement] 
b. [Authorities (including authority to collect PAI and CAI)] 
c. [Intended Results or Outcomes] 
 
3. (U) Execution 
a. [Who, What, When, Where, How] 
b. [Safeguards (must correlate to requested level of Sensitive CAI required for 
mission.)] 
c. [Resourcing including Manning, Funding, Equipment, Training] 
d. [Methodology] 
e. [Dissemination (including all dissemination controls required for release 
according to sensitivity of CAI requested for mission)] 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
4. (U) Administration and Logistics 
 
a. [All applicable reviews and approval dates (reviews should be annexes as req and 
the body just needs to list type of review, reviewer/approver/DTG)] 
b. [Ensure files are properly marked (ICD 206 and DoDM 5240.01, Procs. 3 and 4)] 
c. [Auditing procedures and due diligence measures] 
d. [Report questionable intelligence activities using procedures in AFI 14-104] 
 
5. [(U) CAI or Sensitive CAI (remove if no CAI or Sensitive CAI) 
a. Type, Vendor, Acquisition Date, contract number, terms of use, if known 
b. Data Sources 
c. Storage 
d. Access 
e. IC Catalog nomenclature 
f. Dissemination controls 
g. Approval Checklist of Use of Sensitive CAI 
h. Sensitivity Analysis Results including Reviewer/Approver and DTG] 
 
6. (U) Command and Control 
a. [Command and Control Plan] 
 
7. (U) Point of contact for this CONOP is [POC]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
20 
 
 
 
 
CONOP (PowerPoint Format) Template 
 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
23 
 
 
 
 
Data Sensitivity Analysis Template 
[Letterhead] 
 
DATE 
 
MEMORANDOM FOR  RECORD 
 
FROM: ORG/SYMBOL 
 
Organization 
 
Street Address 
 
City ST  12345-6789 
 
SUBJECT: CAI Sensitivity Assessment of (Source) 
 
References:  (a) DoDD 3115.18, DoD Access to and Use of Publicly Available Information (PAI) 
(b) DoDI 3115.12, Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) 
(c) IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
(d) DoDM 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence 
Activities 
(e) AFI 14-404, Oversight of Intelligence Activities 
(f) AFMAN 14-405, Multiple Source, Discipline, and Domain Intelligence, 
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) 
(g) DoDD 5200.27, Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and 
Organizations not Affiliated with the Department of Defense 
(h) DIA Open Source Intelligence Security Classification Guide 31 May 2022. 
(i) Proper Use of Commercially Available Information (CAI) and Sensitive CAI for 
AF Intelligence Missions, DATE, Annex A Sensitive CAI Spectrum Model 
 
1.  CAI SENSITIVY ASSESSMENT Process.  The below process is intended to provide a score 
sheet to determine the appropriate level of safeguards required to protect U.S. persons 
Information (USPI) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) about U.S. persons in 
accordance with reference (i).  The safeguards required to work with the below assessed data 
source will correlate to the highest rating on the matrix. For example, any assessed Medical or 
Biometric information in a dataset would be categorized as Extremely Sensitive, even if there is 
no minimal USPI Medical or biometric data would still be categorized as extremely sensitive per 
annex XXXXX and require the corresponding safeguards. 
 
2.  Assess the precision of locational data about U.S. persons present or potentially present in the 
commercial tool or dataset. Locational data includes anything that provides data or viewable 
metadata about the location of a device or individual, the origin of a social media post or other 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
24 
 
 
 
 
activity, or any other material that could provide information about the pattern of life of a U.S. 
person. 
Factors 
Not USPI 
Not Sensitive 
CAI 
Moderately 
Sensitive CAI 
Highly 
Sensitive CAI 
Extremely 
Sensitive CAI 
Location Data 
□ None 
□ Filtered to 
remove U.S. 
geographic 
area 
 
□ General 
location, 
accuracy to 
more than 
1000 meters 
□ Precise, but 
not persistent 
location, 
accuracy to 
less than 1000 
meters 
□ Precise, 
persistent 
location of 
USPERS 
 
3. Assess the source of the data, to include personal electronic devices, social media services, or 
another electronic database, present within the commercial tool or dataset. 
Factors 
Not USPI 
Not Sensitive 
CAI 
Moderately 
Sensitive CAI 
Highly 
Sensitive CAI 
Extremely 
Sensitive CAI 
Source devices 
or services 
 
□ No data 
from sources 
or devices 
within the U.S. 
geographic 
area 
□ Includes 
some data 
from sources 
or devices 
within the U.S. 
geographic 
area 
□ Includes a 
large amount 
of data from 
sources or 
devices within 
the U.S. 
geographic 
area, along 
with foreign 
locales 
□ Data 
primarily from 
sources or 
devices within 
the U.S. 
geographic 
area 
 
4. Assess the degree of information about social media posts of U.S. persons present or 
potentially present in the commercial tool or dataset. 
Factors 
Not USPI 
Not Sensitive 
CAI 
Moderately 
Sensitive CAI 
Highly 
Sensitive CAI 
Extremely 
Sensitive CAI 
Public Social 
media activities 
□ None 
□ Public posts 
in true name 
□ Public posts 
under 
username (if 
associated to 
true name) 
□ Dataset 
extracts 
demographic 
info from 
public posts 
□ Dataset 
extracts details 
about exercise 
of protected 
rights from 
public posts 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
25 
 
 
 
 
5. Assess the type, percentage, or absolute volume of sensitive data, to include USPI and PII, 
about U.S. persons present or potentially present in the commercial tool or dataset.  
Factors 
Not USPI 
Not Sensitive 
CAI 
Moderately 
Sensitive CAI 
Highly 
Sensitive CAI 
Extremely 
Sensitive CAI 
Type of 
sensitive data 
□ None 
□ Published 
works 
□ Public filings 
or records 
 
□ General 
demographic 
info (sex, race, 
age, religion, 
registered 
party, etc.) 
□ Associations 
or 
memberships 
in 
organizations 
that would not 
likely result in 
discrimination 
or adverse 
public opinion 
□ Medical info 
□ Financial 
info 
□ Biometric 
info 
□ 
Demonstrates 
expressions of 
guaranteed 
rights 
□ 
Associations, 
political 
opinions, 
gender 
identities, 
sexual 
orientations, or 
other personal 
information 
that may result 
in 
discrimination 
or adverse 
public opinion 
Percentage of 
sensitive data 
□ None 
□ Filtered to 
remove USPI 
□ Incidental amt 
of PII  
(<1% of data) 
□ Moderate 
amt of PII  
(<5% of data) 
□ Large amt of 
PII (<50% of 
data) 
□ Primarily PII 
(>50% of data) 
Volume of 
sensitive data 
□ None 
□ Negligible # 
of USPERS  
(<5000 
individuals) 
□ Moderate # 
of USPERS 
(<50,000 
individuals) 
□ Large # of 
USPERS 
(<1,000,000 
individuals) 
□ Very large # 
of USPERS 
(>1,000,000 
individuals) 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
26 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Acquisition Questionnaire 
[Letterhead] 
 
SUBJECT: USAF Commercially Available Information Vendor Questionnaire 
 
1.  Purpose. This questionnaire will assist the Air Force (AF) in determining if potential tools 
will meet IC, DoD, and AF PAI/CAI auditing and safeguarding requirements. Failure to meet key 
the requirements detailed in the IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information 
(CAI) may disqualify vendors from consideration by the AF. 
2.  QUESTIONS: 
a.  Are members of your company involved with this contract willing and able to sign a non-
disclosure agreement (NDA)? 
b.  By what methods are your data collected, generated, or aggregated? 
c.  What standard or proprietary processing steps and enhancements do you apply against that 
data? 
d.  By what modalities will you make that data available to customers? 
e.  Does your tool provide an auditing capability? 
(1)  If so, how in depth are your audits? (i.e. do they include search terms, times of 
searches, geolocations, etc)  
(2)  Is the customer able to audit the usage or is the audit provided by the vendor? 
(3)  How are results of the audits provided to the USG? 
f.  Does your tool allow for USPI or geographic filtering? 
(1)  If so, how does your tool filter out USPI? 
(2)  Are you able to block search results from specific geographic areas? 
(3)  Can admins turn on or off these filters by individual account? 
g.  What policies do you have in place for compliance with GDPR and CCPA? 
h.  Does the vendor retain access to our search queries? 
(1)  If so, who in the company has access to the search queries? If not, how are queries 
deleted? 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
27 
 
 
 
 
(2)  For how long are search queries stored? 
(3)  Where are the queries stored and what security measures do you have in place? 
(4)  Do the individuals in your company who have access to the queries maintain a 
security clearance? 
(5)  Are there any foreign nationals who have access to the queries? 
i.  Where are your data servers located? 
j.  Does your company sell its user data to any third-party entities? 
k.  Do you sell or share data with any foreign entities? 
l.  Where are your secure enclaves physically located?  
m.  Is your company owned by or have significant shareholders (greater than 25%) that are 
foreign nationals? If so what countries and citizenships? 
n.  Is your company currently involved in any legal proceedings with the USG? 
o.  Is your product banned anywhere in the US or its territories? If so, why? 
p.  Is your product banned within the European Union or the United Kingdom, Australia, 
New Zealand, or Canada? If so where and for what reason? 
q.  Has your tool been previously vetted or used by any other DoD entity? 
(1)  If yes, who and when? 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
28 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Acquisition Approval Memorandum Template 
[Letterhead] 
 
DATE 
 
MEMORANDOM FOR  AF/A2/6O 
 
 
 
     ATTENTION: OPR, CAI POLICY, MNGMNT, AND REPORTING 
 
FROM: ORG/SYMBOL 
 
Organization 
 
Street Address 
 
City ST  12345-6789 
 
SUBJECT: Approval Review for Acquisition of [Sensitive/Non-Sensitive] Commercially 
Available Information (CAI) from [Source] 
 
References:  (a) IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
 
(b) Memorandum Proper Use of Commercially Available Information (CAI) and 
Sensitive CAI for AF Intelligence Missions. 
 
1.  Purpose. This approval checklist documents the signatures and approvals required to complete 
the acquisition of [source] which contains [dynamic/static] CAI determined to be [Not U.S. 
Persons Information (USPI)/Not Sensitive/ Moderately Sensitive/Highly Sensitive/Extremely 
Sensitive]. 
 
2.  This document should be maintained with annual recertifications for the duration the contract 
plus five (5) years, the duration of access or retention of the CAI plus five (5) years, or five 
years, whichever is longer. 
 
3.  The below pre-acquisition review steps have been completed for [Source]: 
 
a.  Mission and authorities’ analysis: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
b.  Pre-acquisition questionnaire (if applicable): [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC 
email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
c.  Sensitivity analysis: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
d.  Legal Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
e.  Civil Liberties and Privacy Office Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC 
email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
f.  Intelligence Oversight Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
g.  Systems Security Office Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
4.  This CAI is [Approved/disapproved] for acquisition, [use, dissemination, sharing, or 
retention]. 
 
5.  Point of Contact for the memorandum is [POC]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
30 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Utilization Approval Memorandum Template 
[Letterhead] 
 
DATE 
 
MEMORANDOM FOR  AF/A2/6O 
 
 
 
     ATTENTION: OPR, CAI POLICY, MNGMNT, AND REPORTING 
 
FROM: ORG/SYMBOL 
 
Organization 
 
Street Address 
 
City ST  12345-6789 
 
SUBJECT: Approval Review for Utilization of [Sensitive/Non-Sensitive] Commercially 
Available Information (CAI) from [Source] by [Unit] 
 
References:  (a) IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
 
(b) Memorandum Proper Use of Commercially Available Information (CAI) and 
Sensitive CAI for AF Intelligence Missions. 
 
1.  Purpose. This approval checklist documents the signatures and approvals required to approve 
[unit’s] use of [source] which contains CAI determined to be [Not U.S. Persons Information 
(USPI)/Not Sensitive/ Moderately Sensitive/Highly Sensitive/Extremely Sensitive]. 
 
2.  This document should be maintained with annual recertifications for the duration of the unit’s 
access or retention of the CAI plus five (5) years. 
 
3.  The below pre-utilization review steps have been completed: 
 
a.  Mission and authorities’ analysis: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
b.  Sensitivity analysis: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
c.  Legal Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
31 
 
 
 
 
d.  Civil Liberties and Privacy Office Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC 
email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
e.  Intelligence Oversight Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
f.  Systems Security Office Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
4.  This CAI is [Approved/disapproved] for acquisition, [use, dissemination, sharing, or 
retention]. 
 
5.  Point of Contact for the memorandum is [POC]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
32 
 
 
 
 
Periodic Review Approval Memorandum Template 
[Letterhead] 
 
DATE 
 
MEMORANDOM FOR  AF/A2/6O 
 
 
 
     ATTENTION: OPR, CAI POLICY, MNGMNT, AND REPORTING 
 
FROM: ORG/SYMBOL 
 
Organization 
 
Street Address 
 
City ST  12345-6789 
 
SUBJECT: Periodic Review of [Sensitive/Non-Sensitive] Commercially Available Information 
(CAI) from [Source] 
 
References:  (a) IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
 
(b) Memorandum Proper Use of Commercially Available Information (CAI) and 
Sensitive CAI for AF Intelligence Missions. 
 
1.  Purpose. This review checklist documents the signatures and approvals required for [source] 
which contains CAI determined to be [Not U.S. Persons Information (USPI)/Not Sensitive/ 
Moderately Sensitive/Highly Sensitive/Extremely Sensitive]. 
 
2.  This document should be maintained for five years. 
 
3.  The below annual review steps have been completed for [Unit] use of [Source]: 
 
a.  Mission and authorities’ analysis: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
b.  Sensitivity analysis: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
c.  Legal Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
d.  Civil Liberties and Privacy Office Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC 
email] 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
e.  Intelligence Oversight Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
f.  Security Office Review: [Date completed, Point of Contact, POC email] 
 
 
[Signature block] 
 
4.  This CAI is [Approved/disapproved] for continued use by [unit]. 
 
5.  Point of Contact for the memorandum is [POC]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block 
 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
34 
 
 
 
 
Exigent Circumstances Approval Memorandum Template 
[Letterhead] 
 
DATE 
 
MEMORANDOM FOR  AF/A2/6O 
 
 
 
     ATTENTION: OPR, CAI POLICY, MNGMNT, AND REPORTING 
 
FROM: ORG/SYMBOL 
 
Organization 
 
Street Address 
 
City ST  12345-6789 
 
SUBJECT: Approval of Exigent Circumstances Collection of Commercially Available 
Information (CAI) 
 
References:  (a) IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
 
(b) Memorandum Proper Use of Commercially Available Information (CAI) and 
Sensitive CAI for AF Intelligence Missions. 
 
(c) DoD Manual (DoDM) 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD 
Intelligence Activities, 8 Aug 2016 
 
1.  Purpose. I hereby approve the immediate [acquisition/access/collection] of [source]. While 
this source may contain CAI, exigent circumstances require that we collect this information in a 
timely manner. 
2.  Justification. [Document the reasons for collecting under exigent circumstances.] 
3.  [Unit] will complete the appropriate Approval checklist [document the expected timeframe]. 
4.  Point of Contact for the memorandum is [POC]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block 
Query Pre-approval Memorandum Template 
[Letterhead] 
 
DATE 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
35 
 
 
 
 
MEMORANDOM FOR  RECORD 
 
FROM: ORG/SYMBOL 
 
Organization 
 
Street Address 
 
City ST  12345-6789 
 
SUBJECT: Approval of Query for Extremely Sensitive Commercially Available Information 
(CAI) on [Subject/Name/Location/Named Area of Interest/Organization] 
 
References:  (a) IC Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information (CAI) 
 
(b) Memorandum Proper Use of Commercially Available Information (CAI) and 
Sensitive CAI for AF Intelligence Missions. 
 
1.  Request Approval for Extremely Sensitive CAI Query on [specific details, to include name, 
identifying information as applicable, address, associated organizations/business that you intend 
the query to encompass.] This query may generate incidental results of Sensitive CAI about 
[details] due to the nature of the search [remove this sentence if not needed. Note: All CAI 
queries on NAI(s), bulk searches, or using a geo-fence (non-pinpoint) located within the United 
States and its territories will be considered an Extremely Sensitive CAI query.] 
a.  (Example) Request Approval for Extremely Sensitive CAI Query on The Chinese 
Business Council of Houston, TX, 1234 ABC Drive, 12345, phone number XXX-XXXX, owner 
John/Jane Doe. This query may generate incidental results collection of Sensitive CAI about 
other U.S. Persons in the Houston, TX area located near this address due to the nature of the 
search. 
2.  Justification. [At a minimum this must include mission supported and corresponding CONOP, 
intelligence, or operational requirements this query may answer, and impacts to mission if this 
query is not approved. The CONOP, including DTG approved, must be noted in this section. Pre-
acquisition or pre-utilization approval memorandum should be noted as well. If there is no 
corresponding CONOP and pre-acquisition or pre-utilization approval memorandum, the 
following sub bullets must be completed.] 
a.  Legal Review (DTG and approving authority) 
b.  CLPO Review (DTG and approving authority) 
c.  Security Review (DTG and approving authority) 
d.  Intelligence Oversight Review (DTG and approving authority) 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
36 
 
 
 
 
3.  Safeguards. [This area will describe the safeguards and control measures that will be used to 
protect the information, including incidental results.] 
4.  Point of Contact for the memorandum is [POC]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block 
 
5.  Approving Authority and Disposition. This Sensitive CAI query is [approved/disapproved]. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature Block (O6/GG15 approver) 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
37 
 
 
 
 
Annex C 
 
Abbreviations 
ATO 
authorization to operate 
 
 
CAI 
commercially available information 
CLPO 
civil liberties and privacy office 
CONOP 
concept of operations 
 
 
EXORD 
execute orders 
 
 
IO 
intelligence oversight 
IPPBE 
Intelligence Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution 
 
 
NDA 
non-disclosure agreement 
 
 
ODNI 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence 
OPORD 
operation order 
OPR 
office of primary responsibility 
OSINT 
open source intelligence 
 
 
PAI 
publicly available information 
PHI 
protected health information 
PII 
personally identifiable information 
 
 
QIA 
questionable intelligence activity 
 
 
RDS 
Records Disposition Schedule 
RFS 
Request for Support 
 
 
SORN 
System of Records Notice 
 
 
USPERS 
U.S. Persons 
USPI 
U.S. Persons information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
38 
 
 
 
 
Glossary 
access The viewing or examining of information for official purposes, or 
establishing the capability to view or examine information for official 
purposes (e.g., by purchasing a license), where the information viewed or 
examined is not stored or otherwise maintained under the control of the IC 
element.   
(ODNI Intelligence Community Policy Framework for CAI, May 2024) 
acquisition The acquiring by contract with appropriated funds of supplies or services by 
and for the use of the Federal Government through purchase or lease, 
whether the supplies or services are already in existence or must be created, 
developed, demonstrated, and evaluated. 
(Federal Acquisition Regulation) 
ATO The official management decision given by a senior Federal official or 
officials to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly 
accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or 
reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation 
based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy 
controls.  Authorization also applies to common controls inherited by agency 
information systems.   
(OMB Circular A-130, Managing Information as a Strategic Resource, 28 
Jul 2016) 
CAI Any data or other information that is of a type customarily made available or 
obtainable and sold, leased, or licensed to members of the general public or 
to non-governmental entities for purposes other than governmental purposes. 
CAI also includes data and information for exclusive government use 
knowingly and voluntarily provided by, procured from, or made accessible 
by corporate entities at the request of a government entity or on their own 
initiative.   
(ODNI Intelligence Community Policy Framework for CAI, May 2024) 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
39 
 
 
 
 
collection Information is collected when it is received by a Defense Intelligence 
Component, whether or not it is retained by the Component for intelligence 
or other purposes.  Collected information includes information obtained or 
acquired by any means, including information that is volunteered to the 
Component.  Collected information does not include: 
 
• Information that only momentarily passes through a computer system of 
the Component; 
 
• Information on the Internet or in an electronic forum or repository outside 
the Component that is simply viewed or accessed by a Component employee 
but is not copied, saved, supplemented, or used in some manner; 
 
• Information disseminated by other Components or elements of the 
Intelligence Community; or 
 
• Information that is maintained on behalf of another U.S. Government 
agency and to which the Component does not have access for intelligence 
purposes. 
(DoD Manual 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD 
Intelligence Activities, 8 Aug 2016) 
PAI Information that has been published or broadcast for public consumption, is 
available on request to the public, is accessible on-line or otherwise to the 
public, is available to the public by subscription or purchase, could be seen 
or heard by any casual observer, is made available at a meeting open to the 
public, or is obtained by visiting any place or attending any event that is 
open to the public.  Publicly available information includes information 
generally available to persons in a military community even though the 
military community is not open to the civilian general public.   
(DoD Manual 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD 
Intelligence Activities, 8 Aug 2016) 
pattern of life The specific set of behaviors and movements associated with a particular 
entity over a given period of time.   
(Activity Based Intelligence Reference Aid, 1 Mar 2016) 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
40 
 
 
 
 
PHI “Individually identifiable health information” held or transmitted by a 
covered entity or its business associate, in any form or media, whether 
electronic, paper, or oral.  “Individually identifiable health information” is 
information, including demographic data, that relates to: 
• the individual's past, present or future physical or mental health or 
condition, 
• the provision of health care to the individual, or 
• the past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to 
the individual, 
and that identifies the individual or for which there is a reasonable basis to 
believe it can be used to identify the individual.   
(Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 [HIPAA], 
Public Law 104-191, 21 Aug 1996) 
PII Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual 's identity, 
either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or 
linkable to a specific individual.   
(ODNI Intelligence Community Policy Framework for CAI, May 2024) 
sensitive activities Activities that over an extended period of time establish a pattern of life; 
reveal personal affiliations, preferences, or identifiers; facilitate prediction of 
future acts; enable targeting activities; reveal the exercise of individual rights 
and freedoms (including the rights to freedom of speech and of the press, to 
free exercise of religion, to peaceable assembly—including membership or 
participation in organizations or associations—and to petition the 
government); or reveal any other activity the disclosure of which could 
cause substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to the 
U.S. person or person in the United States who engaged in the activity.  
(ODNI Intelligence Community Policy Framework for CAI, May 2024) 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
41 
 
 
 
 
Sensitive CAI CAI is considered sensitive if the CAI is purchased from a commercial entity 
through a commercial transaction for a fee or made available by the 
commercial entity at no cost through a commercial transaction that normally 
would involve a fee (e.g., a free trial offering of CAI); and the CAI is known 
or reasonably expected to contain: 
a. a substantial volume of personally identifiable information (PII) regarding 
U.S. persons; or 
b. a greater than de minimis volume of: 
i. sensitive data, which is defined as data that captures personal attributes, 
conditions, or identifiers that are traceable to one or more specific U.S. 
persons, either through the dataset itself or by correlating the dataset with 
other available information; and that concerns the U.S. person’s or U.S. 
persons’ race or ethnicity, political opinions, religious beliefs, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, medical or genetic information, financial data, or 
any other data the disclosure of which would have a similar potential to 
cause substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to the 
U.S. person or U.S. persons described by the data; or  
ii. data that captures the sensitive activities of U.S. persons or persons in the 
United States, with sensitive activities defined as activities that over an 
extended period of time establish a pattern of life; reveal personal 
affiliations, preferences, or identifiers; facilitate prediction of future acts; 
enable targeting activities; reveal the exercise of individual rights and 
freedoms (including the rights to freedom of speech and of the press, to free 
exercise of religion, to peaceable assembly—including membership or 
participation in organizations or associations—and to petition the 
government); or reveal any other activity the disclosure of which could 
cause substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to the 
U.S. person or person in the United States who engaged in the activity. 
Notwithstanding the above criteria, Sensitive CAI does not include: 
• newspapers or other periodicals; weather reports; books, journal 
articles, or other published works; public filings or records; or similar 
documents or databases, whether accessed through a subscription or 
accessible free of cost; or 
• limited data samples made available so an IC element can evaluate 
whether to purchase the full dataset and not accessed, retained, or used 
for any other purpose unless assessed in accordance with Section II.B of 
this Policy Framework. 
(ODNI Intelligence Community Policy Framework for CAI, May 2024) 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
42 
 
 
 
 
Sensitive Data Data that captures personal attributes, conditions, or identifiers that are 
traceable to one or more specific U.S. persons, either through the dataset 
itself or by correlating the dataset with other available information; and that 
concerns the U.S. person’s or U.S. persons’ race or ethnicity, political 
opinions, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, medical or 
genetic information, financial data, or any other data the disclosure of which 
would have a similar potential to cause substantial harm, embarrassment, 
inconvenience, or unfairness to the U.S. person or U.S. persons described by 
the data.   
(ODNI Intelligence Community Policy Framework for CAI, May 2024) 
USPI Information that is reasonably likely to identify one or more specific U.S. 
persons.  USPI may be either a single item of information or information 
that, when combined with other information, is reasonably likely to identify 
one or more specific U.S. persons.  Determining whether information is 
reasonably likely to identify one or more specific U.S. persons in a particular 
context may require a case-by-case assessment by a trained intelligence 
professional.  USPI is not limited to any single category of information or 
technology.  Depending on the context, examples of USPI may include: 
names or unique titles; government-associated personal or corporate 
identification numbers; unique biometric records; financial information; and 
street address, telephone number, and Internet Protocol address information.  
USPI does not include: 
• A reference to a product by brand or manufacturer’s name or the use of a 
name in a descriptive sense, as, for example, Ford Mustang or Boeing 737; 
or 
• Imagery from overhead reconnaissance or information about conveyances 
(e.g., vehicles, aircraft, or vessels) without linkage to additional identifying 
information that ties the information to a specific U.S. person.   
(DoD Manual 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD 
Intelligence Activities, 8 Aug 2016) 
 
 
 
UNCLASSIFIED 
43 
 
 
 
 
Annex D 
 
References 
 
(a) Intelligence Community Policy Framework for Commercially Available Information, May 
2024 (U) 
(b) DoD Manual (DoDM) 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence 
Activities, 8 Aug 2016 (U) 
(c) DoD Directive (DoDD) 3115.18, DoD Access to and Use of Publicly Available Information 
(PAI), 20 Aug 2020 (U) 
(d) DoD Instruction (DoDI) 3115.12, Open Source Intelligence (OSINT), 16 Jul 2020 (U) 
(e) AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 16 Apr 2007 (U) 
(f) AFI 14-404, Intelligence Oversight, 3 Sep 2019 (U) 
(g) AFMAN 14-405, Multiple Source, Discipline, and Domain Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
Reconnaissance (ISR), 11 May 2020 (U) 
(h) DAFMAN 16-201, Department of the Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology 
Transfer Program, 19 Jan 2021 (U) 
(i) AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International 
Organizations, 4 Aug 2016 (U) 
(j) Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 203, Analytic Standards, 21 Dec 2022 
(k) ICD 206, Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, 22 Jan 2015 
(l) ICD 208, Maximizing the Utility of Analytic Products, 9 Jan 2017 (U) 
(m) ICD 503, Intelligence Community Information Technology Systems Security Risk 
Management, 21 Jul 2015 (U) 
(n) ICD 710, Classification Management and Control Markings System, 21 Jun 2013 (U) 
(o) Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Managing Information as a 
Strategic Resource, 28 Jul 2016 (U) 
(p) NIST Special Publication 800-122, Guide to Protecting the Confidentiality of Personally 
Identifiable Information (PII), Apr 2010 (U) 
(q) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule as of 1 Nov 2021 
