 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
WASHINGTON, DC 
 
 
 
         
                                                                                                                          DAFGM2023-17-01  
                                                                                                            28 December 2023 
 
 
 
 
                               Reissue Date:  10 December 2024 
 
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C 
                                         MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs/FOAs/DRUs 
 
FROM: SAF/CN 
 
1800 Air Force Pentagon 
 
Washington DC 20330-1800 
SUBJECT: Department of the Air Force Guidance Memorandum Establishing Policy to Support Telework 
and Remote Workers 
 
By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Department of the Air Force Guidance Memorandum 
(DAFGM) 2023-17-01 reissues interim guidance concerning information technology (IT) support to telework 
and remote workers as defined by DODI1035.01_DAFI36-143, Telework Program. Compliance with this 
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Department of the Air 
Force publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with DAFI 90-160, Publications and Forms 
Management and DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures. This guidance is applicable to the 
entire Department of the Air Force (DAF), including the Regular Air Force, the United States Space Force, the 
Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, the Civil Air Patrol (when conducting missions as the official Air 
Force Auxiliary), all DAF civilian employees and those with a contractual obligation to abide by the terms of 
DAF issuances. 
This DAFGM assigns the roles and responsibilities to support telework and remote working government 
employees working outside the local area of their unit (Attachment).  
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this DAFGM are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-
2, T-3”) number following each compliance statement, DAFI 90-160 and DAFMAN 90-161, Table A10.1 for 
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the 
chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the DAFGM OPR for 
non-tiered compliance items. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information 
Governance Program, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in 
the Air Force Records Management System. 
This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this Memorandum, or upon 
publishing of a new Instruction/Manual permanently establishing this guidance, whichever is earlier. 
 
VENICE M. GOODWINE, SES, DAF 
Chief Information Officer 
 
Attachment: 
Establishing Policy to Support Telework and Remote Workers 
Establishing Policy to Support Telework and Remote Workers 
1. Roles and Responsibilities. Roles and responsibilities to support teleworkers is a coordinated 
effort between all organizations providing and supporting Department of the Air Force 
government employees. 
1.1. The Communications Squadron Commander or designated representative will 
1.1.1. Designate an IT point of contact (POC) for the installation telework coordinator to 
contact as required to provide Information Technology (IT) support to all 
teleworkers/remote workers (T-2). 
1.1.2. Exhaust all reasonable options to resolve IT issues remotely for all 
teleworkers/remote workers assigned to units typically supported by their 
organization, regardless of geographic location (T-2).  
1.2. For teleworkers and remote workers, the Communications Squadron will: 
1.2.1. Provide options to minimize down time for employees experiencing IT issues 
(T-2). 
1.2.2. Coordinate with other installations’ Communications Squadrons to resolve 
problems that require hands-on technical support (T-2). 
1.2.3. Serve as the supporting installation communications focal point (CFP) for remote 
workers whose official worksite is in their geographical area after options to 
resolve the issue remotely by the employing organization/installation have failed 
(T-2).  
1.2.4. Determine the reimbursable costs, including hardware, software and manpower, 
needed to support those members/personnel not within the installation’s 
command.   
1.2.5. When available, provide a loaner device with network access or a loaner 
government mobile device/telephone for remote workers to use temporarily while 
the government furnished equipment (GFE) IT system is undergoing repair. Units 
shall not incur non-reimbursable costs for workers assigned to a different 
organization or installation (T-2). 
1.2.6. Provide on-site support for all DAF information systems connected to Air Force 
Network (AFNET) Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) 
used by remote workers when duty location, as indicated in item 39 on the 
employee’s Standard Form (SF) 50 Notification of Personnel Action, is within 
their geographic area and when all reasonable means to resolve the issue remotely 
have been exhausted (T-2). This includes assisting with troubleshooting and 
repair after unsuccessful remote resolution from the employing organization, as 
well as providing wired or wireless network connectivity at the government 
installation for troubleshooting, updating and/or initial logon when required. 
1.3. The Employing Unit shall: 
1.3.1. Identify the supporting installation for each telework remote/worker on a remote 
or telework agreement and notify the supporting installation Communications 
Squadron (T-3). 
1.3.2. Provide options to minimize down time for employees experiencing IT issues 
(T-3). 
1.3.3. Exhaust all reasonable options to resolve IT issues remotely for assigned 
teleworkers/remote workers, regardless of geographic location (T-2). 
1.3.4. Coordinate with the supporting installation to resolve IT problems that require 
hands-on technical support (T-2). 
1.3.5. Cover the cost of any GFE IT system repairs/upgrades and associated shipping 
costs if remote repairs or hands-on assistance from the supporting installation that 
do not resolve the issue (T-1). This includes shipment of IT systems for repair, 
purchase of new IT in support of tech refresh and procurement of additional 
hardware/software as defined in DAFMAN17-1203, Information Technology (IT) 
Asset Management (ITAM). 
1.3.6. Maintain the warranty for GFE IT equipment, cover associated costs for repair or 
cover the costs to ship the equipment to the owning organization or repair facility 
when repair is not possible remotely or at the supporting installation (T-1). 
1.3.7. Cover costs associated with maintaining GFE mobile devices and associated 
licenses for non-enterprise level software (T-1). 
1.3.8. Cover costs incurred by the supporting installation for United States Government 
(USG) call support technology (e.g., voice over internet protocol [VOIP], 
secure/unsecure video teleconference [VTC], etc.) required for remote workers, if 
not already available at the supporting installation (T-1). 
1.3.9. Cover reimbursable manpower costs incurred by the supporting installation when 
supporting the unit’s members/personnel (T-1). 
1.4. Information System Owner (ISO) or Program Manager of DAF IT will  
1.4.1. Remotely troubleshoot, repair, patch, and upgrade information systems/programs 
installed on devices for approved teleworkers/remote workers. This includes 
remotely troubleshooting and maintaining specialized applications specific to the 
employing organization (T-2). 
1.5. Every Authorized User accessing IT that stores or processes Air Force information will 
1.5.1. Operate the device within the guidelines provided in the annual cyber awareness 
training and any supplemental training provided. Unusual behavior will be 
reported in accordance with local communications focal point’s standard 
operating procedures (or appropriate help desk).  
1.5.2. Use DAF-provided Microsoft Office 365 (DAF365) suite of tools to the 
maximum extent possible in order to protect data.  
1.5.3. Remote workers will travel to the supporting installation or regular worksite listed 
in the telework agreement to connect to AFNET via wired/wireless NIPRNet if 
required and request on-site support if the initial remote troubleshooting and 
repair efforts fail. The Joint Travel Regulation governs travel entitlements. Travel 
outside the local commuting area of the official worksite must be coordinated 
with the user’s supervisor. 
1.6. The Telework Coordinator roles and responsibilities are defined in DoDI1035.01_DAFI 
 
36-143. Additionally, the telework coordinator shall: 
1.6.1. Refer teleworkers/remote workers to the supporting installation Communications 
Squadron IT POC to resolve IT issues for teleworkers/remote workers (T-3). 
1.6.2. Liaise with telework coordinators at other installations to identify applicable IT 
POCs to coordinate IT support for remote workers (T-3). 
