BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 17-221 
31 JANUARY  2023 
Cyberspace 
SPECTRUM INTERFERENCE 
RESOLUTION PROGRAM 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A2/6LS 
Certified by: AF/A2/6L  
(Brig Gen Gavin Marks)
Supersedes: 
AFI17-221, 11 May 2018 
Pages: 18 
 
 
This instruction implements Department of the Air Force (DAF) Policy Directive 17-2, Cyber 
Warfare Operations and describes the DAF Spectrum Interference Resolution Program.  It 
provides DAF guidance in accordance with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
(CJCSI) 3320.02F, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR), CJCSI 3320.02E, Classified 
Supplement to Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR), and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Manual (CJCSM) 3320.02E, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR) Procedures.  It 
provides guidance for reporting, identifying, evaluating, and controlling electromagnetic 
interference (EMI) to meet electromagnetic compatibility goals of the in Department of Defense 
(DoD) Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) program as defined in DoD Instruction (DoDI) 
3222.03, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program.  It also provides guidance 
for requesting Quick Fix Interference Resolution Capability (QFIRC) and related compatibility 
measurements and specialized engineering services.  This publication is applicable to the entire 
DAF, the United States Air Force (USAF), the United States Space Force (USSF), the Air Force 
Reserve, the Air National Guard, the Civil Air Patrol, when conducting missions as the official Air 
Force Auxiliary, all DAF civilian employees, and those with a contractual obligation to abide by 
the terms of DAF issuances.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in 
this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information 
Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition 
Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  Refer 
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility 
(OPR) using the DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  This publication may be 
2 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the office of primary 
responsibility of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.  The 
authorities to waive wing or unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier 
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See Department of the Air 
Force Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, for a description of the 
authorities associated with the tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of 
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority or alternately to the requestor’s 
commander for non-tiered compliance items.  The use of the name or mark of any specific 
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service does not imply endorsement by the 
DAF. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include: inclusion of the USSF, current reporting procedures, and updated terms to match Joint 
Publication (JP) 3-85, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations. 
 
1. 
Overview. .................................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
Roles and Responsibilities. ......................................................................................  
3 
3. 
EMI. .........................................................................................................................  
7 
4. 
EMI Resolution. .......................................................................................................  
7 
5. 
Requesting QFIRC and JSC Assistance. .................................................................  
10 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
11 
Attachment 2—FOR EMI CHARACTERIZATION AND RESOLUTION OF EMI AT 
THE LOCAL LEVEL 
 
14 
Attachment 3—OFFLINE REPORT FORMAT 
 
16 
 
 
 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
3 
1.  Overview.  CJCSI 3320.02F, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR) states DoD 
components will attempt to resolve interference affecting systems under their auspices at the 
lowest level possible within their chain of command.  The DAF Spectrum Interference Resolution 
program pertains to DAF units and organizations experiencing interference at any time except 
when under the operational control of a Combatant Command and follows the principle of 
attempting to resolve interference at the lowest possible level.  Major Command(s) (MAJCOM(s)) 
and Field Command(s) (FLDCOM(s)) with units and organizations located outside of the 
continental United States shall report and resolve interference in accordance with the procedures 
of the Unified Combatant Command (CCMD) or Joint Task Force (JTF) designated that area of 
responsibility and may request the Air Force Spectrum Management Office (AF/A2/6LS) or 
QFIRC assistance, if needed. (T-0)  Interference to space systems, including space, ground, and 
control segments must be reported to your MAJCOM/FLDCOM, in accordance with United States 
Space Command Instruction (SPI) 3250.01A, Satellite Communications (SATCOM). (T-3)  
Submit all reports, initial, follow-on, and closure, through the DoD Area Frequency Coordinator 
(AFC) and MAJCOM/FLDCOM to AF/A2/6LS. 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
2.1.  Director, Joint Spectrum Center: 
2.1.1.  Manages the DoD JSIR program and the JSIR collaboration portal in accordance 
with guidance from the DoD, Chief Information Officer, and the Joint Staff, Director for 
Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber (J-6).  Maintains the DoD 
interference database and status tracking, to include characteristics and methods of 
resolution for each interference case reported and provides database access to DAF units 
upon request. 
2.1.2.  Upon request, assists in the resolution of EMI.  If on-site assistance is necessary, the 
request is initiated by AF/A2/6LS. 
2.2.  Director, Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority (AF/A2/6L) will: 
2.2.1.  Coordinate and recommend countermeasures, when applicable. 
2.2.2.  In conjunction with AF/A2/6LS, assist in the resolution of operational frequency 
deconfliction issues. 
2.3.  Division Chief of Air Force Spectrum Management Office (AF/A2/6LS) will: 
2.3.1.  Act as the DAF focal point for Spectrum Interference Program and EMI resolution 
guidance. 
2.3.2.  Coordinate all policy and instructional guidance with AF/A2/6L. 
2.3.3.  Act as the focal point for EMI problems when the proposed solution involves 
changes in frequency assignments. 
2.3.4.  Submit U.S./Canada and U.S./Mexico radio interference reports as directed in the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) Manual of 
Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management. 
2.4.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will: 
4 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
2.4.1.  Review and coordinate electromagnetic compatibility standards with other agencies, 
in addition to developing military compatibility standards and specifications for the design, 
development, procurement, production, test, and measurement of electrical, electronic, and 
telecommunication equipment. 
2.4.2.  Design equipment for maximum suppression of undesirable emissions and optimum 
rejection of potential EMI in accordance with requirements from the NTIA's Manual of 
Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management. 
2.4.3.  Conduct electromagnetic compatibility studies and analyses to ensure that 
equipment in the design or development stages will meet or exceed established 
specifications and standards and achieve compatibility in its intended operational 
environment. 
2.4.4.  Budget for and provide funds to the 85th Engineering Installation Squadron (EIS) 
for managing and procuring QFIRC support equipment for their unique or specialized test 
equipment needed to support EMI reduction efforts in regard to spectrum dependent 
systems with unique electromagnetic operational environment requirements beyond 
common test equipment capabilities. 
2.5.  Commander, Space Systems Command (SSC) will: 
2.5.1.  Review and coordinate electromagnetic compatibility standards with other agencies, 
in addition to developing military compatibility standards and specifications for the design, 
development, procurement, production, verification, and measurement of electrical, 
electronic, and telecommunication equipment. 
2.5.2.  Design equipment for maximum suppression of undesirable emissions and optimum 
rejection of potential EMI in accordance with requirements from the NTIA's Manual of 
Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management. 
2.5.3.  Provide funds to the 85th EIS for managing and procuring QFIRC support 
equipment for their unique or specialized test equipment needed to support EMI reduction 
efforts in regard to spectrum dependent systems with unique electromagnetic operational 
environment requirements beyond common test equipment capabilities. 
2.6.  Commander, Space Training and Readiness Command (STARCOM) will conduct 
electromagnetic compatibility studies and analyses to ensure that equipment in the design or 
development stages will meet or exceed established specifications and standards and achieve 
compatibility in its intended operational environment. 
2.7.  Commander, 85th EIS will: 
2.7.1.  Act as the technical focal point for the QFIRC and EMI measurements. 
2.7.2.  Maintain an electromagnetic compatibility office to analyze programs for electronic 
facilities, identify interference problems and where possible, make or recommend planning 
adjustments to eliminate or reduce EMI problems. 
2.7.3.  Establish and maintain the QFIRC program for the DAF.  QFIRC services include: 
 
 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
5 
2.7.3.1.  Receiving and analyzing reports of interference to operational equipment and 
systems and provide technical assistance when requested.  Technical assistance will 
include, electromagnetic environmental effects studies, electromagnetic compatibility 
and interference consultation, on-site interference investigations including direction-
finding measurements to locate the source(s) of interference, as well as initiating and 
recommending corrective actions to resolve interference problems. 
2.7.3.2.  Procuring and maintaining reasonable quantities of interference reduction 
devices to resolve operational interference problems. 
2.7.3.3.  Advising all working levels of the other Military Services, nonmilitary 
government agencies, and civilian users of electronic equipment, both domestic and 
foreign, on methods to eliminate or reduce interference problems, where DAF 
equipment is involved. 
2.7.3.4.  Upon request, providing technical advice and measurement assistance to 
AF/A2/6LS and MAJCOM/FLDCOMs on EMI problems during equipment and 
systems acquisition.  The requesting organization normally funds assistance.  If funds 
are not available, the requesting organization will need to address funding through their 
higher HQ. 
2.7.3.5.  Advising HQ AFMC and HQ SSC of interference trends or developments that 
require changes in maintenance procedures, requirements for new equipment, or 
modifications to present equipment. 
2.7.3.6.  Reviewing and coordinating on compatibility standards, as necessary, with 
other agencies and assist HQ AFMC and HQ SSC in the development of adequate and 
useful military standards and specifications for the design, development, procurement, 
production, test and measurement of electromagnetic spectrum-dependent equipment. 
2.7.3.7.  Providing DAF activities with measurement services to analyze and resolve 
EMI problems.  These services include prototyping and testing various configurations 
of equipment to determine the best installation criteria when parameters cannot be 
obtained from equipment design specifications or available test data. 
2.7.3.8.  Procuring, developing, and employing reliable and accurate measurement 
techniques and equipment with the sensitivity, accuracy, range, and stability necessary 
to provide valid electromagnetic measurement data on DAF electronic equipment and 
systems to evaluate electromagnetic compatibility and interference, and providing 
measurements and specialized engineering services as outlined in this instruction. 
2.7.3.9.  Maintaining an online reference library of technical information on actions 
taken to resolve EMI problems and provide available information to the Joint Spectrum 
Center (JSC) to be included in the JSIR database. 
2.7.3.10.  Publishing a user/maintainer technical guide for resolving interference at the 
local level. 
2.8.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM, Field Operating Agencies, and Direct Reporting Unit 
Commanders/Directors will: 
2.8.1.  Adhere to the guidance herein for the DAF spectrum interference resolution 
program. 
6 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
2.8.2.  Identify electromagnetic compatibility and interference requirements and request 
the appropriate technical assistance to perform the required analysis, measurements and 
evaluations. 
2.8.3.  Provide a policy letter to establish reporting channels and office of primary 
responsibility at each level of command or supplement this instruction, as necessary, to 
include reporting channels and office of primary responsibility at each level of command.  
Supplements must not impede the reporting of EMI or restrict the direct communication of 
policy between subordinate units and DAF engineering agencies that provide QFIRC 
consulting and technical support, measurements and specialized engineering services.  A 
copy of the policy letter or supplement should also be sent to the 85th EIS email addresses 
listed in paragraph 4.2.5.1 or mail to 670 Maltby Hall Drive, Ste 234, Keesler AFB MS 
39534-2633. 
2.8.4.  Provide a command point of contact for electromagnetic compatibility and 
interference to the 85th EIS. 
2.8.5.  Ensure that EMI is reported in accordance with the EMI reporting policy and 
procedures. 
2.8.6.  Assist subordinate organizations with EMI education and training, and the 
development of local procedures, templates and checklists. 
2.8.7.  Assist subordinate units in identifying, resolving and reporting EMI. 
2.8.8.  Determine if the frequency assignments involved in the interference are in 
compliance with respective spectrum certification and assignment parameters. 
2.8.9.  Ensure that electromagnetic compatibility requirements are considered before 
assigning frequencies. 
2.8.10.  Coordinate actions to resolve interference. 
2.9.  Installation/Wing (or equivalent) Spectrum Managers will: 
2.9.1.  Implement a base-level interference resolution program using the guidance 
contained in this DAFI or provided by the respective MAJCOM/FLDCOM and Numbered 
Air Force (NAF) as applicable. 
2.9.2.  Resolve EMI resulting from frequency assignment problems through coordination 
with DoD AFCs, as required, MAJCOM/FLDCOMs, AF/A2/6LS, and other agencies and 
foreign countries, through the appropriate Combatant Command, as required. 
2.9.3.  With assistance from the higher HQ, develop a spectrum interference resolution 
training program, local interference reporting checklists, and mission specific JSIR 
templates for all installation spectrum users on all aspects of documenting, analyzing, and 
reporting. 
2.9.4.  Assist all victims/users in the completion of the actions noted in Attachment 2 and 
prescribed offline reporting format and submission channels contained in Attachment 3. 
2.9.5.  Ensure victim system is operating with a valid frequency assignment and within the 
specified technical parameters of the assignment. 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
7 
2.9.6.  Coordinate all QFIRC assistance requests through MAJCOM/FLDCOM spectrum 
management channels. 
3.  EMI.  Can be caused by enemy, neutral, friendly, or natural sources, and is resolved on a case-
by-case basis.  Users investigate and report as outlined in paragraph 4 using the recommended 
checklist in Attachment 2. 
3.1.  EMI from DoD Users.  When the interference clearly results from another DoD user, 
attempt to resolve the interference at the lowest organizational level.  (T-3) After all local 
efforts have been exhausted to resolve the interference, request assistance through command 
spectrum management channels.  Within their area of responsibility, installation commanders 
and DoD AFCs have the authority to implement radio silence/cease jamming operations (Cease 
Buzzer) procedures for a suspected interfering activity until the interference issue can be 
resolved. 
3.2.  EMI from Non-DoD Users.  Request assistance through command spectrum management 
channels, do not go directly to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or any other 
federal agency. (T-1)  AF/A2/6LS coordinates with the FCC and other government agencies 
at the national level if the investigation shows that non-federal equipment caused the 
interference.  Within their designated areas, DoD AFCs are authorized to locally coordinate 
with any federal or non-federal agency to resolve interference at the lowest level possible. 
3.3.  EMI from Suspected Hostile Sources.  The primary difference between hostile and non-
hostile EMI is intent.  In a training or exercise environment, EMI incidents should initially be 
treated as non-hostile until proven otherwise.  EMI occurring in a hostile operational 
environment is to be considered hostile until a determination can be made as to the source of 
the problem.  Suspected hostile EMI or electromagnetic attack must be reported and up 
channeled immediately to the appropriate MAJCOM/FLDCOM office and the Joint Spectrum 
Center (JSC) in accordance with CJCSI 3320.02F and CJCSI 3320.02E-1. (T-0) Military 
satellite communications incidents will be handled in accordance with the procedures outlined 
in CJCSM 3320.02E and SPI 3250.01A. (T-0) 
4.  EMI Resolution. 
4.1.  The victim of the interference will contact the installation spectrum manager (ISM) or 
other point of contact identified by the higher headquarters (HQ) where the interference has 
occurred. (T-2)  The following actions should be initiated/accomplished prior to requesting 
assistance from the higher HQ Spectrum Management Office (SMO) per paragraph 4.2. 
4.1.1.  System operator contacts equipment maintenance personnel to determine if the 
interference is the result of maintenance actions or an equipment malfunction. 
4.1.2.  System operator contacts other known nearby units to ascertain if they are 
experiencing the same type of EMI.  This may aid in identifying the interference source. 
4.1.3.  When co-channel interference (interference between systems assigned similar 
frequency assignments) is suspected, the ISM attempts to determine the location of 
frequency assignments that fall within the bandwidth of the victim receiver. 
 
 
8 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
4.1.4.  After exhausting all local resolution efforts, the ISM, DoD AFC, or 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM SMO can contact the 85th EIS located at Keesler AFB, MS to 
request support for the problem.  Based on availability, risk to force, and risk to mission, 
85th EIS can provide personnel and equipment on-site for further analysis as described in 
paragraph 5.1. 
4.2.  EMI  Reporting. 
4.2.1.  Report Precedence.  The ISM and MAJCOM/FLDCOM SMO work with the 
operator to determine precedence consistent with the urgency of the reported situation. If 
interference is determined to be non-hostile, reporting should be accomplished within two 
hours of the start of the event. 
4.2.2.  Suspected Hostile EMI.  If EMI is suspected to be intrusion, jamming, or any other 
potentially hostile activity, it must be reported immediately. (T-3) 
4.2.3.  Security Classification of EMI Reports.  Guidelines for classifying interference 
incidents are contained in CJCSI 3320.02F.  Units must evaluate the security sensitivity of 
the interference on the affected system and classify the report accordingly. (T-0)  Security 
classification of interference incidents/reports is determined principally by an 
operation/platform/equipment security classification guide or stated source of the 
interference and the sensitivity of the affected military system/operation. Stations located 
in combat areas or having a sensitive military mission normally classify all interference 
reports. 
4.2.4.  Report Format.  EMI incidents shall be entered into the Joint Spectrum Interference-
Online (JSIR-O) collaboration portal while resolution using local organic assets or host 
nation assistance is pursued. (T-0)  Entering the incident in the JSIR-O collaboration portal 
only provides situational awareness, it does not generate a request for technical support.  
The JSIR-O collaboration portal is located on the Secure Internet Protocol Router Network 
(SIPRNet) at https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/jsir/default.aspx and Joint 
Worldwide 
Intelligence 
Communication 
System 
at 
https://intelshare.intelink.ic.gov/sites/jsir/default.aspx.  All spectrum managers 
involved with EMI resolution will ensure they have proper access and permissions to 
access the JSIR-O portal to be able to establish alerts and to be able to edit and maintain 
reports. (T-0)  As an alternative method of reporting, interference reports can be reported 
by email.  See Attachment 3 for Offline Report Format. 
4.2.5.  Current reporting addresses for email submissions. 
4.2.5.1.  DAF units and organizations submitting email notification of JSIR-O reports 
or offline interference reports through their chain of command to their higher HQ 
(Wing/Delta, NAF, MAJCOM/FLDCOM SMOs) and DoD AFC as an action 
addressee, will provide an info copy to AF/A2/6LS and 85th EIS, as the technical focal 
point for the QFIRC and EMI measurements for the DAF using the appropriate email 
address for the classification of the report. (T-3) NIPRnet email addresses: AF/A2/6LS; 
afsmoccworkflow@us.af.mil, 
85th 
EIS; 
85eis.scym.1@us.af.mil, 
and 
85eis.scx.1@us.af.mil 
SIPRnet 
email 
addresses: 
AF/A2/6LS; 
usaf.jbanafw.afsmo.mbx-cc-mbx@mail.smil.mil and 85th EIS; USAF.Keesler.81-
TW.MBX.85-EIS-SCY@mail.smil.mil. 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
9 
4.2.5.2.  MAJCOM/FLDCOMs can submit offline reports to the 85th EIS at the 
addresses provided in paragraph 4.2.5.1 as the action addressee with an info copy to 
appropriate JSC email address; NIPRnet email address disa.sosc@mail.mil or SIPRnet 
email address disa.sosc@mail.smil.mil.  All requests for JSC support will be 
coordinated through the MAJCOM/FLDCOM SMOs with an information copy to 
AF/A2/6LS. (T-3) 
4.2.5.3.  Reports classified above secret are handled on a case-by-case basis, contact 
AF/A2/6LS for details. 
4.3.  Exercise Interference.  During exercise periods, coordinate all interference reports with 
the Electronic Warfare Cell in the Air Operations Center or Electronic Warfare Duty Officer.  
Do not submit an exercise-related report if jamming or intrusion activities are authorized 
during an exercise and determined to be the source of interference.  Depending on geographical 
location, contact the appropriate Range Spectrum Manager, MAJCOM SMO, or DoD AFC to 
determine if the interference is an approved part of the exercise. 
4.4.  Exceptions to Reporting.  Do not report an incident when: 
4.4.1.  The interference is transient EMI from natural sources (e.g., rain, lightning, etc.) 
4.4.2.  The interference only affects training frequencies assigned on a non-interference 
basis for training purposes. 
4.4.3.  Space weather (e.g., high frequency fades, polar cap absorption events, geomagnetic 
storming, etc.) are reasonably believed to be the cause of interference or confirmed as the 
cause of the interference.  For assistance, notify the local weather unit of the interference 
to include date, time, location, system, and frequency impacts. 
4.4.4.  The interference is only experienced aboard intelligence, surveillance and 
reconnaissance aircraft aloft and is localized when mission equipment or payload 
equipment is turned on/off or used.  In these cases, the interference can be reported to the 
flying unit's Director of Maintenance/Maintenance Officer and Director of Operations.  
The unit's Director of Maintenance/Maintenance Officer may report the EMI to 
AFMC/EN; the flying unit's Director of Operations can characterize the operational impact.  
The unit's Director of Maintenance/Maintenance Officer can determine if unit maintenance 
or calibration resolves the EMI before notifying AFMC.  If notified, AFMC determines if 
any field or depot upgrades meant to resolve the interference are already scheduled. 
4.5.  Laser Event Reporting.  The National Air & Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) and the 
National Space Intelligence Center (NSIC) collectively provide analytical assistance 
pertaining to hostile laser events against USAF, USSF, and other Military Service's assets as 
requested, and will be processed in accordance with strategic intelligence priorities.  NASIC 
and NSIC also determine the capability and performance of foreign airborne and spaceborne 
laser systems, respectively.  Data collection on laser events is necessary to understand the 
nature of the threat and to inform appropriate countermeasure TTPs.  Aircrew will report a 
laser illumination event IAW AFMAN 11-202V3, Flight Operations. (T-3).  If analytical  
 
 
10 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
assistance with a laser event related to an airborne asset is required, contact NASIC Electronics 
Analysis Squadron (NASIC/ACL) at the following numbers: 937-257-4911 or DSN 787-4911, 
or the NASIC/ACL org box at NASIC.ACL.OrgBox@us.af.mil.  For analytical assistance 
with a laser event related to a space asset, contact NSIC 2nd Space Analysis Squadron at 
NASIC.NSIC2SAS_ORB_AllPersonnel@us.af.mil. 
5.  Requesting QFIRC and JSC Assistance. 
5.1.  The QFIRC reduces or eliminates unintentional (non-hostile) EMI associated with DAF 
operational equipment.  The QFIRC service analyzes and recommends corrective actions for 
reported interference problems.  The 85th EIS provides QFIRC to all DAF units.  This unit can 
provide personnel and equipment to perform on-site direction finding and interference problem 
analysis.  The 85th EIS will document corrective actions and give recommendations for solving 
interference problems in a formal report that will be forwarded to the requesting unit and to 
the DoD AFC, its parent MAJCOM/FLDCOM, and AF/A2/6LS. (T-3) 
5.2.  The JSC maintains a central database of interference cases, resolutions, and lessons 
learned for all DoD and provides analytical and on-site assistance in resolving EMI problems.  
JSC assistance is requested by AF/A2/6LS after all DAF resources are exhausted. 
 
LEAH LAUDERBACK, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects Operations 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
11 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDI 3222.03, DOD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program, August 25, 2014, 
CJCSI 3320.02F, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR), 8 March 2013 
CJCSM 3320.02E, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR) Procedures, 20 May 2022 
CJCSI 3320.02E-1, Classified Supplement to Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR), 10 
February 2014 
JP 3-85, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations, 22 May 2020 
DAFPD 17-2, Cyber Warfare Operations, 27 October 2020 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFMAN 11-202V3, Flight Operations, 10 January 2022 
DAFI 90-160, Publications and Forms Management, 14 April 2022 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 15 April 2022 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Manual of Regulations and 
Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management, January 2021 
SPI 3250.01A, Satellite Communications (SATCOM), 18 May 2020 
ACP 190 US SUPP-1(D), Guide to Frequency Planning, January 2015 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFC—Area Frequency Coordinator 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
CCMD—Combatant Command 
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
CJCSM—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 
DAF—the Department of the Air Force 
DAFMAN—Department of the Air Force Manual 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
12 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
E3—Electromagnetic Environmental Effects 
EIS—Engineering Installation Squadron 
EMI—Electromagnetic Interference 
FCC—Federal Communications Commission 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
HQ—Headquarters 
ISM—Installation Spectrum Manager 
JP—Joint Publication 
JSC—Joint Spectrum Center 
JSIR—Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution 
JSIR-O—Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution-Online 
JTF—Joint Task Force 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
NAF—Numbered Air Force 
NASIC—National Air & Space Intelligence Center 
NIPRnet—Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network 
NTIA—National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
QFIRC—Quick Fix Interference Reduction Capability 
SIPRNet—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network 
SSC—Space Systems Command 
SMO—Spectrum Management Office 
SPI—United States Space Command Instruction 
STARCOM—Space Training and Readiness Command 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
USSPACECOM—United States Space Command 
Office symbols 
85th EIS—85th Engineering Installation Squadron 
AF/A2/6L—Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Directorate 
AF/A2/6LS—Air Force Spectrum Management Office 
AFMC/EN—HQ Air Force Material Command Engineering & Technical Management 
JS/J6—Joint Staff, Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
13 
NASIC/ACL—National Air & Space Intelligence Center, Analysis Squadron 
Terms 
Department of Defense Area Frequency Coordinator (DoD AFC)—The DoD AFC is 
responsible for ensuring successful frequency coordination in the areas that lie within, are adjacent 
to, or are within radio line-of-sight to any range spectrum-dependent system, including all systems 
brought to a national test range or other designated complex as defined in ACP 190 US SUPP-
1(D) and the NTIA Manual, Chapter 8. 
Electromagnetic compatibility—The ability of systems, equipment, and devices that use the 
electromagnetic spectrum to operate in their intended environments without causing or suffering 
unacceptable or unintentional degradation because of electromagnetic radiation or response.  Also 
called EMC. (JP 3-85). 
Electromagnetic environmental effects (E3)—The impact of the electromagnetic environment 
upon the operational capability of military forces, equipment, systems, and platforms.  Also called 
E3. (JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic interference—Any electromagnetic disturbance, induced intentionally or 
unintentionally, that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits the effective performance 
of electromagnetic spectrum-dependent systems and electrical equipment.  Also called EMI. (JP 
3-85) 
 
14 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
Attachment 2 
FOR EMI CHARACTERIZATION AND RESOLUTION OF EMI AT THE LOCAL 
LEVEL 
Table A2.1.  Checklist for EMI Characterization and Resolution of EMI at the Local Level. 
To assist users and spectrum managers at the local level, the following checklist can be used 
to identify and potentially resolve interference.  This checklist should be implemented prior to 
with submitting a JSIR-O interference report or contacting the 85th EIS.   
EMI incidents that are suspected to be caused by hostile EAs shall be immediately reported 
on the JSIRO collaboration portal, indicating the hostility of the incident, while attempting 
resolution. For more information, see CJCSI 3320.02E-1, Classified Supplement to Joint 
Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR). 
STEP ACTION 
COMPLETE 
Y/N 
1 
Start a log and collect as much information about the EMI as 
possible.  
 
2 
If appropriate measurement equipment is available, attempt to 
quantify the interference signal characteristics.1) The interfering 
source center frequency, 2) Bandwidth, 3) Relative amplitude, 4) 
Modulation,… 
 
 
Geographical Information 
 
3-1 
Contact other units in the geographical area to determine the area 
affected.  
 
3-2 
Verify exact location of receiver/antenna using GPS, if available.  
 
4 
Determine interference start and stop times.  
 
5 
Have maintenance personnel: 
 
Ensure all connectors are tight.  
 
Ensure antenna cables are in good condition.  
 
Ensure equipment is operating IAW technical manual 
specifications and frequency assignment parameters.  
 
6 
Verify antenna is on the correct azimuth and elevation if applicable.   
 
Environment Information 
 
7-1 
Contact nearby units to determine if there is any recently installed 
equipment.  
 
7-2 
Contact the Electronic Warfare Officer to determine if there is any 
local jamming or exercise occurring in the local area.  If air assets 
are suspected, validate with spectrum analyzer and have the 
Electronic Warfare Officer validate.  
 
7-3 
Check with equipment and facility maintenance personnel to 
determine if the interference is the result of maintenance actions or 
an equipment malfunction.  This should include non RF equipment 
that can cause spark-type interference used to support the operation 
of RF equipment (e.g., thermostat-controlled devices, electric 
motors, welders, etc.) 
 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
15 
7-4 
If possible, conduct a site survey looking for other users and 
environmental considerations that may impact affected emitter. 
 
7-5 
Check to see if construction is being conducted in the immediate 
area. 
 
7-6 
Determine whether the natural environment is the cause (e.g., High 
Frequency fades, Polar Cap Absorption events, geomagnetic 
storming, etc.) 
 
 
Frequency Assignment Information 
 
8-1 
Verify through the ISM or MAJCOM/FLDCOM SMO that a valid 
frequency assignment authorization exists. 
 
8-2 
If no assignment exists, cease transmission and request valid 
frequency. 
 
8-3 
If valid assignment exists, change to alternate frequency and 
determine if interference is present.  
 
8-4 
If a valid assignment exists and the interference persists after 
changing to an alternate frequency, immediately submit an 
interference report through MAJCOM/FLDCOM SMO and the 
Joint Spectrum Center. 
 
8-5 
Where co-channel or adjacent channel interference is suspected 
(i.e., the interfering signal overlaps the operating bandwidth of the 
victim receiver), check with local and area frequency management 
personnel to determine if other locally operated equipment has been 
recently assigned a co-channel/or adjacent channel frequency. 
 
 
General Characterization 
 
9 
If resources are available, system operations and equipment 
maintenance personnel will attempt to determine the bandwidth, 
relative amplitude, and modulation of the EMI with a spectrum 
analyzer.  Find the approximate bandwidth by varying the receiver 
frequency to determine the affected frequency band. 
Determine if the following are true to help characterize the 
interference: 
 
The interfering signal is encrypted. 
 
The interfering signal is understandable, e.g., voice. 
 
Note all settings (demods, bandwidths, gains, etc.) of your 
receiver equipment that enabled you to hear intelligible information 
on the interfering signal. 
 
The interference is due to a steady receive key indicating 
equipment failures, glitches, or lapses in operational discipline. 
 
 
 
16 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
Attachment 3 
OFFLINE REPORT FORMAT 
Figure A3.1.  Offline Report Format. 
 
Since all reported interference reports should be submitted to the DoD central repository 
managed by the JSC at https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/jsir/default.aspx, the following 
reporting format can be used to facilitate the process and should be reported by any electronic 
means possible, email being the preferred method.  Alternately, a spreadsheet is available on 
the same DoD central repository that can be downloaded for offline use and uploaded to the 
repository using the instructions provided on the website. 
All interference will be reported regardless of type, frequency, occurrences and source.  This 
will supplement the database, which can be used to determine trends in area of interference. 
SECURITY CLASSIFICATION 
Subject: (Security Classification) AIR FORCE SPECTRUM INTERFERENCE 
RESOLUTION  REPORT - INITIAL, FOLLOW-UP, or FINAL 
MESSAGE TEXT: 
Exercise Name (if applicable)  
Operation Name/Plan Originator & Number 
Activity Type (contingency, exercise, or project) 
Originator & Office Code/000-00// (where 000- 00 is your local tracking number) 
POC/Last Name, First, Middle Initial/Grade & Title/Organization & Office Code/Street 
Address/Telephone (DSN)/Telephone (Comm)/e-mail (NIPRnet)/(NIPRnet)//24/7 POC 
Information.  
REMARKS: 
1.  DESCRIPTION OF AFFECTED SYSTEM 
A.  FREQUENCY(IES) AFFECTED:  
B.  FREQUENCY ASSIGNMENT NUMBER: The Air Force serial number or unique 
identification number of the frequency assignment being affected by the interference, if 
known. 
C.  NETWORK(S)/CIRCUIT(S) AFFECTED: Network circuits affected by the interference. 
D.  LOCATION OF SYSTEM(S): Location of system(s) affected by the interference, i.e., 
latitude, longitude, and site name. 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
17 
E.  SYSTEM AFFECTED: Include function, name, nomenclature, manufacturer with model 
number, or other system description.  If available, include equipment characteristics of the 
affected receiver, such as receiver bandwidth, antenna type, antenna size, and information 
about any installed frequency band filters.  
F.  OPERATING MODE: Operating mode of the affected system, if applicable (frequency 
agile, pulse Doppler, search, upper/lower sideband, etc.).  
G.  NETWORK CONTROL STATION & PRINCIPAL USER(s) and PRIORITY NUMBER: 
Network control station and principal users.  This information may be used to determine the 
priority of the restoration attempts.   
H.  OTHER STATIONS/UNITS EXPERIENCING INTERFERENCE: 
Other stations or units affected by the interference; include geographical location, coordinates, 
and line-of-bearing and distance from reporting site. 
 
2.  CHARACTERIZATION OF EMI 
A.  INTERFERENCE FREQUENCY, BANDWIDTH, AND SIGNAL STRENGTH: Record 
the frequency and bandwidth (in kHz, MHz, etc.) at which the interference is most apparent 
and the EMI signal strength (in dBm, dBW, etc.). 
B.  INTERFERENCE CHARACTERISTICS: CONTINUOUS, INTERMITTENT, 
RANDOM, or CHARACTERISTIC pattern; VARIED or CONSTANT amplitude; NOISE 
and/or PULSED. Include any other information that may assist in determining the source of 
the problem. 
C.  PERFORMANCE EFFECTS.  Description of interference effects on performance, e.g., 
one or more of the following: usable or unusable, garbled, frame loss, steady receive 
indication (SRI), reduced range, false targets, reduced intelligibility, data errors, etc.  
D.  CIRCUIT RELIABILITY: Describe the quality of user circuit as affected by the 
interference as observed through the symptoms, e.g., frequency USABLE or UNUSABLE for 
DATA or VOICE, GARBLED, FRAME LOSS, SRI, etc. 
E.  INTERFERENCE CAUSE(S) & SOURCE(S): For example, solar weather, atmospheric 
conditions, terrestrial or structural blockage, stuck carrier or cryptographic phase, another unit 
(include unit name, geographical coordinates, and line-of-bearing and distance from reporting 
site, if available).  
F.  DATES AND TIMES: Document approximate interference rate; include start and stop 
times or “ongoing.”  Indicate whether the duration of the interference is continuous or 
intermittent, if occurring at a regular or irregular time of day and if coincident with any 
ongoing local activity. 
18 
DAFI17-221  31 JANUARY  2023 
3.  RESOLUTION 
A.  SPECIFIC ACTIONS TAKEN TO MITIGATE, NULLIFY, IDENTIFY SOURCE(S) OF 
& RESOLVE INTERFERENCE: Include clear, concise description of steps taken to mitigate 
or nullify, isolate source(s) of, and resolve interference.  Add additional narrative of anything 
else known or suspected about interference that might be helpful in technical analysis.  
Specify whether assessment is based on technical measurement, observation, or estimation. 
B.  Electromagnetic interference STATUS: Indicate whether the problem has been identified 
and resolved. 
C.  REQUEST FOR RESOLUTION ASSISTANCE: Indicate if technical assistance is desired 
or anticipated; request should be directed to operational chain of command.  Include 
recommendation for specific action. 
4.  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Include anything not addressed in previous paragraphs 
and include declassification instructions as appropriate. 
 
