BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 10-2702 
29 JUNE 2023 
Operations 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS  
OF THE CIVIL AIR PATROL 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: SAF/MRR 
Certified by: SAF/MR 
Supersedes: 
AFI10-2702, 2 January 2019 
Pages: 8 
 
 
This publication implements Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 10-27, Civil 
Air Patrol. This publication describes the board membership, the role, principal tasks and structure 
of the Civil Air Patrol, Board of Governors; the Department of the Air Force relationship with the 
Board of Governors and other Air Force activities; the procedures for selecting board members 
and Department of the Air Force support to the Board of Governors. This publication applies to 
Department of the Air Force civilian employees and uniformed members of the United States 
Space Force, the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. In 
collaboration with the Chief of the Air Force Reserve (AF/RE), the Director of the Air National 
Guard (NGF/CF), and the Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital (SF/S1), the 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1), develops personnel policy 
for Board of Governors of the Civil Air Patrol. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management 
and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary 
responsibility using the DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF 
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command for approval by 
SAF/MRM workflow email address: usaf.pentagon.saf-mr.mbx.saf-mrm-workflow@mail.mil. 
The authorities to waive wing or unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a 
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See Department of the 
Air Force Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, for a description of 
the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of 
2 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the requestor’s 
commander for non- tiered compliance items. This publication may not be supplemented. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been revised and needs to be reviewed in its entirety.  Major changes include 
updated Title 10 United States Code (USC) references and reorganization of the material for 
clarity. 
 
 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
3 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Legal Standing and Role of the Board of Governors.  The Civil Air Patrol Board of 
Governors is the governing body of the Civil Air Patrol in accordance with 10 USC Section 
(§) 9497, Board of Governors. The Board of Governors (BoG) is responsible for the effective, 
efficient and proper management and fiduciary oversight of the Civil Air Patrol (CAP), a 
federally supported congressionally-chartered nonprofit corporation, subject to requirements 
of law and federal regulation. (T-0) 
1.2.  Dual Nature of Organization.  The CAP acts as both a volunteer civilian auxiliary of 
the US Air Force to perform non-combatant Air Force Assigned Missions (AFAM), and as a 
federally-chartered nonprofit corporation. In this latter role, their mission is to enhance and 
foster civil aviation in local communities (see 36 USC § 40302, Purposes) and may provide 
assistance to states and local governments for disaster relief and other emergency and non-
emergency missions (see 10 USC § 9493, Activities performed as federally chartered nonprofit 
corporation). The organization will submit an annual report to Congress, pursuant to 36 USC 
§ 40307, Annual report, regarding its nonprofit corporate activities. (T-0) 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
2.1.  Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs and Airman 
Readiness. (SAF/MRR).  In accordance with Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
(HAFMD) 1-24, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive, SAF/MRR, on behalf of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR), serves as 
the primary Secretariat of the Department of the Air Force (DAF) office for matters pertaining 
to policy and oversight affecting CAP as the Air Force Auxiliary. 
2.2.  Board of Governors (BoG).  The BoG, in accordance with 10 USC § 9497, is the 
governing body of CAP and shall govern, direct, and manage the affairs of the corporation. 
(T-0) 
2.3.  First Air Force (Air Forces Northern).  Is the principal Numbered Air Force 
responsible for administrative, legal, and programmatic support to CAP. 
2.4.  Civil Air Patrol US Air Force (CAP-USAF).  Is the Air Force program office that sets 
program objectives and defines, monitors, evaluates, and corrects CAP activities. 
2.5.  The National Commander.  Serves as the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for 
overall control of the organization and reports directly to the BoG. 
3.  Powers of the Board of Governors.  Under 10 USC § 9497(e), Board of Governors: Powers, 
the BoG shall exercise the powers granted to CAP as a federally-chartered non-profit corporation, 
including the power to adopt and amend a constitution, by-laws, and regulations; adopt and alter a 
corporate seal; establish and maintain offices in the District of Columbia and the states, territories, 
and possessions of the United States to conduct its affairs; acquire, own, lease, encumber, and 
transfer property as necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation; sue and be sued; and 
perform any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation. (T-0) 
4.  Statutory Compliance.  Neither the BoG, nor any other component of CAP, may modify or 
terminate any requirement or authority set forth in law. 
 
 
4 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
5.  Principal Tasks.  The BoG is responsible for the operation of CAP as a federally-chartered 
non-profit corporation. As described in the constitution and by-laws, the BoG will: 
5.1.  Planning. Revie  w and determine strategic plans and programs for CAP. (T-0) 
5.2.  Direct.  Direct CAP programs, financial positions, legislative relations, asset allocations, 
membership, development, and direct improvements to each as needed. The BoG may also 
consider current and projected policies relating to the effectiveness of CAP support to the Air 
Force, the nation, and the overall financial and volunteer wellbeing of the organization. (T-0) 
5.3.  Advisement.  Serve as a pool of expert advisors, either individually or in groups, to 
various CAP activities. Individual BoG members provide this service at their convenience 
subject to their availability. (T-0) 
5.4.  CEO Selections.  Select, retain, evaluate performance and remove the CAP National 
Commander, who also serves dual-hatted as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. 
(T-0) 
5.5.  COO Selections.  Select, retain, evaluate performance and remove the CAP Chief 
Operating Officer. (T-0) 
5.6.  IG Programs.  Oversee the CAP Inspector General Program. (T-0) 
5.7.  Oversee the Adverse Action Panel.  Oversees activities of the CAP Member Adverse 
Action Panel. (T-0) 
5.8.  Constitution and By-Laws.  Revise the constitution and by-laws in accordance with 
paragraph 3 of this instruction. (T-0) 
5.9.  Inquiries.  Inquire into any and all aspects of CAP volunteer and corporate activities. 
(T-0) 
5.10.  Committees.  Establish standing and ad hoc committees of the BoG, as required, to 
perform their roles and responsibilities. (T-0) 
6.  Air Force Relationship with Civil Air Patrol.  As set forth in 10 USC § 9498, Regulations, 
the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) governs the conduct of the CAP when operating as a 
volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air Force, prescribes regulations governing the activities of the 
CAP and, subject to Secretary of Defense approval, arranging assistance by other agencies to 
support the CAP as an auxiliary of the Air Force. Furthermore, the SecAF may regulate and 
oversee CAP corporate activities that are supported by appropriated funds, use assets procured 
with appropriated funds, or involve matters where CAP’s activities could give the appearance of 
endorsement of the action by the Air Force or could be detrimental to the federal government. 
7.  Department of the Air Force Relationship with the Board of Governors.  SAF/MR, 
delegated to SAF/MRR, serves as the conduit between the DAF corporate structure and the Board 
of Governors, to advise and address matters related to Secretarial oversight and strategic planning 
initiatives of mutual interest. 
8.  Limitation on the authority of the Board.  The BoG has no authority to establish or exercise 
authority over any DAF policy, mission, or activity. 
 
 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
5 
9.  Reporting.  The BoG is required to provide an annual report to the SecAF on the status of CAP 
as the civilian auxiliary of the Air Force. This written report will include performance measures in 
conducting programs and AFAMs during the preceding twelve-month period. SAF/MRR will 
attend BoG meetings and report to SAF/MR updates regarding Secretarial oversight and strategic 
planning initiatives. (T-0) 
10.  Board Membership.  In accordance with 10 USC § 9497, the BoG is comprised of eleven 
members. (T-0) 
10.1.  Department of the Air Force appoints four members.  In accordance with 10 USC § 
9497(b)(1), Board of Governors: Composition, the SecAF, further delegated to SAF/MR, 
appoints the four Air Force board members. Appointees may be current or retired Air Force 
members of any component of the DAF, employees of the United States, or private citizens. 
(T-0) 
10.1.1.  By virtue of position, the First Air Force Vice Commander will be appointed to 
serve as an ex officio BoG member to ensure the Air Force operational relationship with 
the board.  (T-0) 
10.1.2.  The CAP-USAF Commander serves as an advisor to the board, ex officio, and 
attends scheduled BoG meetings. 
10.2.  Civil Air Patrol appoints four Members.  Membership is selected in accordance with 
the constitution and by-laws of the CAP. 
10.3.  Joint appointment of three members from interested organizations.  Joint 
appointees are selected from among the personnel of any federal government agencies, public 
corporations, nonprofit associations, and other organizations that have an interest and expertise 
in civil aviation and the CAP mission and vision. 
10.3.1.  These members are appointed jointly by the SecAF, delegated to SAF/MR, and the 
National Commander of CAP. 
10.3.2.  Per 10 USC § 9497 (c)(2), Board of Governors: Appointments From Interested 
Organizations, any vacancy in the position of a member of the BoG under paragraph 10.3 
of this instruction that is not filled within 90 days will be filled by an individual selected 
by majority vote of the other members of the BoG. 
10.4.  Chairman.  The Chairman of the BoG is responsible for the overall direction and 
effectiveness of the BoG.  The Chairman is selected from members referenced in paragraphs 
10.1 and 10.2 and in accordance with the constitution and by-laws of CAP. The Chairman 
position alternates, at the completion of each term, between the DAF and CAP members of the 
board. 
10.5.  Removal of Board of Governors members.  Board members may be removed for 
cause. 
10.5.1.  SecAF possesses removal authority for DAF appointed members. 
10.5.2.  The BoG possesses removal authority for those CAP members appointed in 
accordance with the constitution and by-laws. 
10.5.3.  The SecAF and the CAP National Commander can remove, through joint action, 
the jointly appointed board members. 
6 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
11.  Meetings.  The Chairman schedules and convenes the meetings as required with proper 
notification and approval of the board members in accordance with the CAP Constitution and By-
laws. 
12.  Department of the Air Force Personnel Participation.  Attendance at BoG meetings on 
behalf of the DAF is authorized on official time and official travel.  Reimbursement for travel in 
an official status is in accordance with AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty/Special Orders and the Joint 
Travel Regulation. (T-1) 
 
ALEX WAGNER 
Assistant Secretary 
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
7 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
10 USC § 9493, Activities performed as federally chartered nonprofit corporation 
10 USC § 9497, Board of Governors 
10 USC § 9497(b)(1), Board of Governors: Composition 
10 USC § 9497 (c)(2), Board of Governors: Appointments From Interested Organizations 
10 USC § 9497(e), Board of Governors: Powers 
10 USC § 9498, Regulations 
36 USC § 40302, Purposes 
36 USC § 40307, Annual report 
HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), 28 January 
2019 
DAFPD 10-27, Civil Air Patrol, 15 December 2022 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty/Special Orders, 15 August 2019 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 15 April 2022 
JTR, Uniformed Service Members and DoD Civilian Employees, 1 June 2023 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFAM—Air Force Assigned Mission 
BoG—Board of Governors 
CAP—Civil Air Patrol 
CAP-USAF—Civil Air Patrol United States Air Force 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force Instruction 
DAFMAN—Department of the Air Force Manual 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
8 
DAFI10-2702  29 JUNE 2023 
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force 
USC—United States Code 
Office Symbols 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services 
AF/RE—Chief of the Air Force Reserve 
NGF/CF—Director of the Air National Guard 
SAF/MRR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs and Airman 
Readiness 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SF/S1—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital 
Terms 
Civil Air Patrol Board of Governors—Responsible for the effective, efficient and proper 
management and fiduciary oversight of the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) 
National Commander—Civil Air Patrol Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for overall 
control of the organization and reports directly to the Board of Governors. 
 
