BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 10-2602 
30 JUNE 2022 
Operations 
COUNTERING WEAPONS OF  
MASS DESTRUCTION ENTERPRISE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no restrictions on the release of this publication 
 
Certified by: HQ USAF/A10S  
(Colonel James Hendrickson) USSF 
OPR: AF/A10S 
 
 
 
Senior Coordinator:  
(SF/S10N, Mr. Zannis Pappas)
Pages: 52 
 
 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-26, Countering Weapons of 
Mass Destruction. This publication is consistent with Department of the Air Force (DAF) 
Instruction (DAFI) 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program, DAFI 10-2601, 
Electromagnetic Pulse Survivability Program, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-2607, Chemical, 
Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Survivability, AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Flight 
Equipment Program, AFI 13-500, Air Force Nuclear Mission Responsibilities, AFI 48-101, 
Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical, 
Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Environment, and Air Force Handbook (AFH) 10-2603, 
Operations in a Nuclear Environment. This instruction provides policy, organizational 
responsibilities, and processes by which the DAF governs the Countering Weapons of Mass 
Destruction (WMD) Enterprise. This publication applies to the Regular United States Air Force 
(USAF), United States Space Force (USSF), Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. 
Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air 
Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, and are 
disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the 
Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended changes and questions 
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the DAF Form 847, 
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the field through the 
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but 
all supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification 
2 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
and approval. The authorities to waive wing, unit, delta or garrison level requirements in this 
publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance 
statement. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier 
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. 
Compliance with Attachments 1, 2, and 3 of this publication is mandatory. 
 
 
Chapter 1—OVERVIEW 
 
3 
1.1. 
Background. .............................................................................................................  
3 
1.2. 
To implement AFPD 10-26, the DAF will. .............................................................  
3 
1.3. 
Objectives. ...............................................................................................................  
5 
Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
6 
2.1. 
Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF). ........................................................................  
6 
2.2. 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF). ..................................................................  
8 
2.3. 
Chief of Space Operations (CSO). ...........................................................................  
19 
2.4. 
Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF) will. .........................................................  
20 
2.5. 
Commanders, United States Air Force Major Commands and Commanders, 
United States Space Force Field Commands will. ...................................................  
20 
2.6. 
Directors of Field Operating Agencies ....................................................................  
28 
2.7. 
Directors of Direct Reporting Units (DRU) will. ....................................................  
29 
2.8. 
Commanders, Wing, Delta, Unit, and Installations will. .........................................  
30 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
32 
Attachment 2—DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE COUNTERING WEAPONS OF 
MASS DESTRUCTION ENTERPRISE GOVERNING BODIES 
 
38 
Attachment 3—DEVELOPING CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM 
PRIORITIES FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE MISSIONS 
 
42 
Attachment 4—DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE COUNTERING WEAPONS OF 
MASS DESTRUCTION CROSS-FUNCTIONAL COMPETENCIES 
 
44 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
3 
Chapter 1 
OVERVIEW 
1.1.  Background. 
1.1.1.  The development  , acquisition, testing, proliferation, and use of WMD are part of 
competitors and potential adversaries’ asymmetric efforts to counter US conventional military 
superiority, refine capabilities to rapidly reshape conflict, and hold the US homeland at risk. 
Weapons of mass destruction present an existential threat to the United States and its interests 
around the world. Airmen and Guardians must be resilient and ready to operate and succeed in 
highly contested environments. 
1.1.2.  The Secretary of Defense, in accordance with the President’s direction, states the 
Department of Defense (DoD) will dissuade, deter, and defeat WMD actors of concern and 
their proliferation networks. The Department of Defense also will maintain the ability to 
respond to and mitigate the effects of WMD use. 
1.1.3.  The Department of Defense defines WMD as chemical, biological, radiological, or 
nuclear (CBRN) weapons capable of a high order of destruction or causing mass casualties, 
excluding the means of transporting or propelling the weapon where such means is a separable 
and divisible part from the weapon. Countering WMD describes the effort against actors of 
concern to curtail the conceptualization, development, possession, proliferation, use, and 
effects of weapons of mass destruction, related expertise, materials, technologies, and means 
of delivery. 
1.1.4.  In accordance with AFPD 10-26, the DAF will organize, train, and equip its forces to 
support DoD and US Government efforts to:  deter or deny adversary acquisition and use of 
WMD; find and control, disrupt, or destroy adversary WMD capabilities; and, when necessary, 
minimize the effects of adversary WMD attacks on USAF and USSF operations. 
1.1.4.1.  See DAFI 10-2501 for guidance regarding DAF application of the National 
Planning Frameworks for global all-hazard mission areas to prevent, protect, mitigate, 
respond, and recover from WMD specific threats and hazards. 
1.1.4.2.  See AFMAN 10-2503 for guidance on conducting and sustaining operations in 
CBRN environments in theater during major combat operations. 
1.2.  To implement AFPD 10-26, the DAF will. 
1.2.1.  Prepare its forces and construct its mission critical systems in order to ensure the Force’s 
ability to conduct effective military operations in and through a WMD engagement and 
environment. See DAFI 10-2601 and AFI 10-2607 for guidance on CBRN survivability of 
mission critical systems. 
1.2.2.  Develop and maintain Airmen and Guardians across all career fields, both deployed 
abroad and in garrison, that are resilient and ready to operate in the future high-end fight against 
WMD-armed adversaries. 
1.2.2.1.  Weapons of Mass Destruction-ready Airmen and Guardians are regular, reserve, 
and National Guard officers and enlisted who: 
4 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
1.2.2.1.1.  Achieve proficiency in conducting and supporting countering WMD 
operations. See Attachment 4 for recommended countering WMD competencies and 
proficiency levels. 
1.2.2.1.2.  Maintain CBRN defense training in accordance with DAFI 10-2501; 
1.2.2.1.3.  Are trained to perform critical tasks in a contested, contaminated, or WMD-
threatened environment; 
1.2.2.2.  Commanders require the education and experience to direct effective actions 
against WMD-armed adversaries, while managing and mitigating CBRN risks. See 
Attachment 4 for recommended Countering WMD competencies and proficiency levels. 
1.2.3.  Establish the Countering WMD Enterprise, with participation from all USAF and USSF 
functions, to coordinate and synchronize this cross-functional mission and to: 
1.2.3.1.  Develop strategy, policy, plans, concepts, and doctrine to counter WMD and to 
ensure that the USAF and USSF implement related DoD strategy, policy, plans, concepts, 
and doctrine. 
1.2.3.2.  Establish equipment, training, manpower, and other resource requirements needed 
to conduct and sustain countering WMD operations and to conduct and sustain core Air 
and Space missions in and through a WMD-contaminated or contested environment. 
1.2.3.3.  Identify gaps in countering WMD operational capabilities and address shortfalls 
with appropriate DAF offices or commands in accordance with AFI 10-601, Operational 
Capability Requirements Documentation and Validation. 
1.2.3.4.  Ensure exercise practice and inspections assess the readiness of forces to execute 
the full range of countering WMD operations and activities. 
1.2.3.5.  Ensure DAF science and technology efforts applicable to countering WMD 
operations are done in coordination with the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Defense 
Threat Reduction Agency, and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. 
1.2.3.6.  Coordinate USAF and USSF countering WMD activities and operations with the 
other Services; the Office of the Secretary of Defense; the Joint Staff; coalition partners; 
host-nations; and federal, state and local organizations, as necessary and appropriate. 
1.2.3.7.  Advise the Joint Staff and Combatant Commands on the use of air, space, and 
cyber forces in support of the Proliferation Security Initiative (PSI) and 
counterproliferation interdiction. 
1.2.3.8.  Plan, program, budget, and execute for the sustainment of chemical and biological 
defense capabilities consistent with defense acquisition processes, the Joint Capabilities 
Integration and Development System, DoD Directive (DoDD) 5160.05E, Roles and 
Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological Defense Program (CBDP), 
and the Joint Staff/J-8 Joint Requirements Office for CBRN Defense, Modernization Plan 
for Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Defense. 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
5 
1.2.3.9.  Plan, program, budget, and execute for the acquisition and sustainment of 
radiological and nuclear defense capabilities consistent with defense acquisition processes, 
the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, and the Joint Staff/J-8 Joint 
Requirements Office for CBRN Defense, Modernization Plan for Chemical, Biological, 
Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Defense. 
1.2.3.10.  Define, develop, document, validate and implement CBRN survivability 
requirements, to include reporting requirements, for designated mission-critical systems 
and CBRN mission-critical systems/infrastructure. See AFI 10-2607 and DAFI 10-2601 
for implementation. 
1.3.  Objectives.  To implement AFPD 10-26, this instruction will: 
1.3.1.  Further refine roles and responsibilities at Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Major 
Commands (MAJCOM), Field Commands (FLDCOM), Field Operating Agencies, and Direct 
Reporting Units (DRU) within the Countering WMD Enterprise. See Chapter 2. 
1.3.2.  Describe the governing bodies for the Countering WMD Enterprise to include the DAF 
Countering WMD Council, Countering WMD Integration Group, and associated working 
groups. See Attachment 2. 
1.3.3.  Establish the process by which the DAF develops and advocates countering WMD 
planning priorities in the Service and DoD acquisition processes. See Attachment 3 for 
Chemical and Biological Defense Program engagement. 
1.3.4.  Provide a list of recommended countering WMD competencies and proficiency levels 
for Airmen and Guardians to plan and execute countering WMD operations. See Attachment 
4. 
6 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF). 
2.1.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ)  and Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and 
Integration (SAF/SQ) will: 
2.1.1.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on countering WMD and CBRN defense 
acquisition policy guidance and issues, and integrate with Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A&S)) guidance as required. 
2.1.1.2.  Provide recommendations on the integration of countering WMD operational 
requirements into USAF and USSF research, development and acquisition programs. 
2.1.1.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.1.4.  Director of Global Power Programs (SAF/AQP)  will, in coordination with the 
Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and lead commands, support the acquisition and 
sustainment of all materiel designed to establish a Countering WMD operational capability. 
2.1.1.5.  Deputy Assistant Secretary for Science, Technology, and Engineering 
(SAF/AQR)  will: 
2.1.1.5.1.  Review, plan, budget, and manage countering WMD science and technology 
policy, guidance, and activities. 
2.1.1.5.2.  Present DAF countering WMD science and technology research and 
development interests to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. 
2.1.2.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller 
(SAF/FM)  will: 
2.1.2.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise in accordance with responsibilities 
contained in DAFMAN 65-605, V1, Budget Guidance and Technical Procedures, 
paragraphs 1.3.3 and 2.1, which includes support to the DAF corporate process, as further 
articulated in AFPD 90-6, Air Force Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and 
Execution (SPPBE) Process. 
2.1.2.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.2.3.  Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget (SAF/FMB)  will, in accordance with 
responsibilities contained within DAFMAN 65-605, V1, paragraph 2.2.1.1, provide, on 
behalf of the SecAF, appropriate fiscal oversight of the DAF programming function, 
consistent with the Deputy Under Secretary, Management (SAF/MG) implementing 
procedural guidance, AFPD 90-6. 
2.1.3.  General Counsel of the DAF (SAF/GC)  will: 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
7 
2.1.3.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise in the development and review of 
strategy, plans, policies, procedures, training and operations relating to countering WMD, 
including counterproliferation interdiction, to ensure consistency with US law and the 
obligations of the United States under international law and relevant treaties and 
international agreements. 
2.1.3.2.  Serve as the lead for the PSI and point of contact for CJCSI 3520.02C, U.S. 
Military Support to the Proliferation Security Initiative. 
2.1.3.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.4.  Deputy Under Secretary for International Affairs (SAF/IA)  will: 
2.1.4.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on politico-military affairs, security 
cooperation programs, armaments cooperation and other cooperative programs, 
international cooperative research and development efforts, classified and controlled 
unclassified information disclosure policy, technology transfer, export control, and attaché 
and security cooperation officer affairs. 
2.1.4.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.4.3.  Director of Policy and Programs (SAF/IAP)  will ensure considerations for 
countering WMD operations are incorporated, as appropriate, into military-to-military 
contacts, foreign military sales and assistance programs, and cooperative interagency 
support to export controls, treaty verification, and inspections. 
2.1.5.  The Inspector General  (SAF/IG) will: 
2.1.5.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on DAF inspection policy in accordance 
with DAFPD 90-3, The Inspector General. 
2.1.5.2.  Advise 
the 
Countering 
WMD 
Enterprise 
on 
matters 
pertaining 
to 
counterintelligence support to CBRN threat assessments and other countering WMD 
operations 
in 
accordance 
with 
AFPD 
71-1, 
Criminal 
Investigations 
and 
Counterintelligence. 
2.1.5.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.6.  Director of Legislative Liaison (SAF/LL)  will: 
2.1.6.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on congressional legislation, inquiries, 
and investigations related to conducting countering WMD operations and operating in 
CBRN environments. 
2.1.6.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.7.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
(SAF/MR)  will: 
 
 
8 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.1.7.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the policy of manpower, military and 
civilian personnel, and reserve component affairs related to conducting countering WMD 
operations and operating in and through CBRN environments, consistent with HAF 
Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-24, Special Management, Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) and DAFPD 36-81, Total Force Human Resource 
Management Governance. 
2.1.7.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.7.3.  Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Force Management 
Integration (SAF/MRM)  will advise the Countering WMD Enterprise, in coordination 
with Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) and Chief 
Human Capital Officer (CHCO) (SF/S1), on the impacts of countering WMD operations 
plans and policies on military and civilian personnel. 
2.1.8.  Director of Public Affairs, The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force 
(SAF/PA)  will: 
2.1.8.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
public release of information regarding adversary WMD programs, current countering 
WMD operations, casualty and mortuary affairs guidance, and development of related 
capabilities to support future operations. 
2.1.8.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.1.8.3.  Chief, Media Operations Division (SAF/PAO)  will: 
2.1.8.3.1.  Communicate timely and accurate information on WMD attacks and 
countering WMD operations. 
2.1.8.3.2.  Provide guidance and oversight for public affairs issues to support 
countering WMD operations. 
2.1.8.3.3.  Develop public affairs templates on CBRN threats for installations. 
2.1.8.3.4.  Maintain, update, and execute the DAF countering WMD Strategic 
Communications Plan in conjunction with AF/A10S. 
2.2.  Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF). 
2.2.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1)  will: 
2.2.1.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide oversight of, and policy 
recommendations on, the integration of countering WMD operational requirements into 
developing the USAF Total Force. 
2.2.1.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
9 
2.2.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6)  will: 
2.2.2.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, and sourcing of 
USAF intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and cyber effects capabilities and 
personnel to enable countering WMD operations. 
2.2.2.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.2.3.  Director, Analysis, Partnerships and Engagement (AF/A2/6A)  will: 
2.2.2.3.1.  Oversee plans and procedures for the use of intelligence data to develop 
targeting materials to support joint force air component commanders and staffs 
conducting countering WMD operations and operations in CBRN environments. 
2.2.2.3.2.  Provide subject matter expertise to support MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs 
during the joint intelligence preparation of the operating environment. 
2.2.2.3.3.  Provide support, as appropriate, to facilitate WMD intelligence sharing 
among other US Government departments and agencies and US, allied, partner, and 
coalition forces. 
2.2.2.4.  Director, Cyberspace Operations and Warfighter Communications 
(AF/A2/6C-A3C)  , will: 
2.2.2.4.1.  Ensure considerations for countering WMD operations and operating in 
CBRN environments are incorporated into cyberspace operations. 
2.2.2.4.2.  Analyze cyberspace requirements for countering WMD operations and 
recommend program priorities. 
2.2.2.4.3.  In coordination with Director, Enterprise Information Technology 
(SAF/CNS), will: 
2.2.2.4.3.1.  Ensure the implementation of enterprise command and control, 
warfighter networking, and combat support data management capabilities are 
integrated into countering WMD operations and capabilities, to include CBRN 
defense support to command and control and Joint All Domain Command and 
Control in support of integrated early warning. 
2.2.2.4.3.2.  Provide recommendations on integrating DoD information network 
operations into countering WMD operational requirements. 
2.2.2.5.  Director, National Aviation Intelligence Integration Office (AF/A2/6N)  will: 
2.2.2.5.1.  Review role and responsibilities in accordance with applicable Execute 
Orders and advise AF/A10S of proposed changes to advocate to Office of the Secretary 
of Defense, Joint Staff, and US Special Operations Command. 
2.2.2.5.2.  Coordinate with Joint Staff and other US departments and agencies as 
required on intelligence matters supporting countering WMD and counterproliferation 
interdiction policy. 
10 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.2.2.5.3.  Provide representation to PSI workshops, planning meetings, and planning 
conferences for air counterproliferation interdiction and PSI activities, as required. 
2.2.2.5.4.  Coordinate with operational elements of other U.S. Government 
departments and agencies, as required. 
2.2.2.6.  Director, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations 
(AF/A2/6O)  will: 
2.2.2.6.1.  Participate in planning activities designed to improve the capability of 
intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance (ISR) assets to support national countering 
WMD operations. 
2.2.2.6.2.  Provide policy, guidance and oversight for the organization, training, and 
equipping of ISR and cyber forces to support countering WMD operations, including: 
2.2.2.6.2.1.  Find and characterize adversary WMD development, testing, weapon, 
and delivery systems (to include associated production facilities, storage locations, 
delivery vehicles, and firing locations) to provide and support reconnaissance, 
surveillance, Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield, Indications and Warning, 
and Battle Damage Assessment, as well as, scientific and technological intelligence 
(S&TI) for acquisitions. 
2.2.2.6.2.2.  Provide ISR to inform senior leaders of the intent, research and 
development, capabilities, production, testing, weapons delivery systems and use 
of nations or organizations attempting to acquire or use WMD. 
2.2.2.6.2.3.  Provide necessary ISR support to joint force air component 
commanders and staffs conducting countering WMD operations. 
2.2.2.6.2.4.  Provide timely and accurate warning of a CBRN attack against US 
forces or interests. 
2.2.2.6.2.5.  Assess the impact of CBRN use on ISR capabilities. 
2.2.2.6.2.6.  Provide strategic S&TI warning of CBRN technology breakthroughs 
that increase future operational risk. 
2.2.2.6.3.  In support of the National Technical Nuclear Forensics (NTNF) program: 
2.2.2.6.3.1.  Develop and maintain an objective end-to-end post detonation concept 
of operations for NTNF. 
2.2.2.6.3.2.  Manage the programming and planning of DAF airborne and 
laboratory capabilities to support nuclear treaty monitoring and NTNF. 
2.2.2.6.3.3.  Coordinate, synchronize, manage, and enhance post-detonation 
laboratory analysis, evaluation, and reporting. 
2.2.2.6.3.4.  Establish a panel of technical experts to produce timely and accurate 
technical conclusions supporting attribution of an improvised nuclear device 
detonation. 
2.2.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3)  will: 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
11 
2.2.3.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, readiness, and 
sourcing of USAF air and cyberspace capabilities and personnel to conduct countering 
WMD operations. 
2.2.3.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.3.3.  Director of Current Operations (AF/A3O)  will, when current and impending 
operations support countering WMD and/or require operating in CBRN environments, 
coordinate with AF/A10S, AF/A4C, and AF/SG for the appropriate subject matter 
expertise to support oversight and monitoring of those operations. 
2.2.3.4.  Director of Training and Readiness (AF/A3T)  will: 
2.2.3.4.1.  As a career field manager, provide policy, guidance, and oversight on the 
integration of countering WMD operational concepts and requirements into functional 
area programs, publications, and training plans, to include, in coordination with 
AF/A4C, reliable pre-attack planning and post-attack actions to minimize the adverse 
effects of CBRN attacks on aircrew mission operations. See Attachment 4 for 
recommended countering WMD competencies. 
2.2.3.4.2.  Provide technical implementation of countering WMD mission essential 
tasks in Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS) and coordinate requirements 
with MAJCOMs,DRUs, Units, and Combatant Commands. 
2.2.3.4.3.  Ensure Operational Readiness Reviews incorporate considerations for 
countering WMD operations, to include potential WMD defeat capabilities, and 
operating in and through CBRN environments, and impact of WMD on plans, 
execution of air operations center processes, and mission essential combat air 
forces/mobility air forces/command, control, communications, and computers. 
2.2.3.4.4.  As the lead for the Aircrew Flight Equipment Program and Aerospace 
Physiology Programs: 
2.2.3.4.4.1.  Develop, evaluate, and implement Aircrew CBRN defense policy and 
guidance. 
2.2.3.4.4.2.  Identify Aircrew CBRN defense requirements for consideration in the 
USAF modernization priorities for the Chemical and Biological Defense Program. 
2.2.3.4.4.3.  Provide Aircrew CBRN defense expertise to AF/A4C to support the 
program objective memorandum (POM) build process for the Chemical and 
Biological Defense Program. 
2.2.3.4.4.4.  Ensure Aircrew CBRN defense equipment and tactics, techniques, and 
procedures maximize aircrew performance and address hazardous physiological 
situations. 
2.2.3.4.5.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the role of integrated air and 
missile defense to enable countering WMD operations. 
2.2.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection 
(AF/A4)  will: 
12 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.2.4.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, and sourcing of 
logistics, civil engineering, maintenance, force protection, emergency management, and 
explosive ordnance disposal capabilities and personnel to conduct countering WMD 
operations, CBRN defense, and sustained agile combat employment in and through CBRN 
environments. 
2.2.4.2.  Serve as the DAF Modernization lead for the DoD Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program. 
2.2.4.3.  Represent DAF Logistics at the DAF Countering WMD Council and 
Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment CBRN threat forums. 
2.2.4.4.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.4.5.  Director, Civil Engineers (AF/A4C)  will: 
2.2.4.5.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for the organization, training, and 
equipping USAF civil engineers to provide prompt, reliable pre-attack planning, post-
attack damage assessment, reconnaissance, and warning of WMD effects and other 
CBRN hazards. 
2.2.4.5.2.  As the DAF Modernization lead for the DoD Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program: 
2.2.4.5.2.1.  Lead USAF and USSF participation in the development and 
sustainment of joint CBRN defense capabilities and serve as chair of the DAF 
Countering WMD Council Modernization Working Group. 
2.2.4.5.2.2.  Develop a plan, in coordination with the Operations Lead and the 
Medical Lead, for modernizing CBRN defense capabilities through the mid- and 
long-term. 
2.2.4.5.2.3.  Along with AF/A5R, serve as the DAF representative to the Chemical 
and Biological Defense Program Overarching Integrated Program Team. 
2.2.4.5.2.4.  Serve as the lead DAF representative to the Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program POM build process chaired by the Director of the Joint 
Requirements Office for CBRN Defense. 
2.2.4.5.2.5.  Coordinate and submit DAF requirements for CBRN Defense 
capability documents to the Joint Requirements Office. 
2.2.4.5.3.  Incorporate CBRN defense preparedness into DAF expeditionary 
operations, assist MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, DRUs, and units in fulfilling CBRN defense 
reporting and training requirements, and support MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, and DRUs 
as needed in deliberate and adaptive planning processes that include CBRN defense 
considerations. 
2.2.4.5.4.  Oversee DAF CBRN Defense Force Development consistent with service 
priorities and combatant commander requirements: 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
13 
2.2.4.5.4.1.  Communicate priorities for CBRN Force Development to the Air 
Force Expeditionary Readiness Council and the Air Force Installation & Mission 
Support Enterprise. 
2.2.4.5.4.2.  Oversee formal CBRN defense training for Airmen, Guardians and 
other base populace personnel, including senior leaders, to enable performance of 
non-medical CBRN defense tasks and missions on installations. 
2.2.4.5.4.3.  In coordination with Commander, Air Education and Training 
Command (AETC), oversee development of training standards and curricula. 
2.2.4.5.5.  Where appropriate, incorporate countering WMD considerations into all 
applicable Emergency Management and CBRN defense-related plans, programs, 
requirements, and budgets. 
2.2.4.5.6.  Develop, update, and maintain USAF Emergency Management and CBRN 
defense doctrine, policy, directives and instructions, and, in coordination with Chief, 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Division (AF/A10S), incorporate 
operational considerations into those documents. 
2.2.4.5.7.  Conduct studies and analyses to validate Emergency Management CBRN 
Force Development activities and investments are effective against assessed fielded 
adversary capabilities. 
2.2.4.5.8.  Advocate for non-medical CBRN defense considerations in plans, programs, 
requirements, budgets, and acquisition programs. 
2.2.4.5.9.  Develop contamination avoidance, protection, and contamination control 
concepts with supporting policy or other guidance. 
2.2.4.6.  Director, Logistics (AF/A4L)  will: 
2.2.4.6.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on logistics and maintenance 
requirements to support countering WMD operations and operate in and through CBRN 
environments. 
2.2.4.6.2.  As career field manager, provide policy, guidance, and oversight on the 
integration of countering WMD operational concepts and requirements into functional 
area programs, publications, and training plans, to include, in coordination with 
AF/A4C, reliable pre-attack planning and post-attack actions to minimize the adverse 
effects of CBRN attacks on mission operations. See Attachment 4 for recommended 
countering WMD competencies. 
2.2.4.7.  Director, Security Forces (AF/A4S)  will: 
2.2.4.7.1.  Coordinate with appropriate directorates and agencies to develop force 
protection requirements to include considerations for operating in and through CBRN 
environments. 
2.2.4.7.2.  Develop policy and doctrine for Security Forces to enhance installation 
security, and provide for physical defense against ground and air attacks involving 
CBRN weapons. 
14 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.2.4.7.3.  As the lead for Counter-(small) Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) defense, 
coordinate with AF/A10S and AF/A4C on the potential use of small UAS armed with 
CBRN weapons and implications for installation operational defense. 
2.2.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy, Integration and Requirements (AF/A5)  will: 
2.2.5.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
integration of countering WMD operational requirements into existing and new USAF 
capabilities. 
2.2.5.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.5.3.  Director, Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5D)  will: 
2.2.5.3.1.  Advise the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering WMD Integration 
Group, and associated working groups on countering WMD and CBRN defense 
requirements prior to review by the Air Force Requirements Oversight Council. 
2.2.5.3.2.  Represent the USAF on the development and validation of joint countering 
WMD capabilities through the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System 
and Joint Requirements Oversight Council. 
2.2.5.4.  Director, Air Force Futures (AF/A5I)  will: 
2.2.5.4.1.  Advise the DAF Countering WMD Council and its associated working 
groups on integration of countering WMD and CBRN defense considerations into Total 
Force, multi-domain operating concepts. 
2.2.5.4.2.  Guide resourcing priorities to improve USAF ability to support joint 
countering WMD operations and operate in and through CBRN environments. 
2.2.5.5.  Director, Strategy, Concepts, and Assessments (AF/A5S)  will: 
2.2.5.5.1.  Ensure considerations for conducting countering WMD operations and 
operating in and through CBRN environments are incorporated into strategic plans and 
future force concepts. 
2.2.5.5.2.  Ensure considerations for conducting countering WMD operations and 
operating in and through CBRN environments are included in war gaming, exercises, 
and assessments. 
2.2.6.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8)  will: 
2.2.6.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations to 
resource countering WMD operational requirements in the programming, planning, 
budgeting, and execution (PPBE) process. 
2.2.6.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.6.3.  Director, Programs (AF/A8P)  will adjudicate considerations for conducting 
countering WMD operations and operating in and through CBRN environments are 
included in MAJCOM POM build guidance. 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
15 
2.2.6.4.  Director, Strategic Plans (AF/A8X)  will adjudicate considerations for 
conducting countering WMD operations and operating in and through CBRN 
environments are included in operations policy and guidance for planning, execution, 
global integration, and assessment in support of combatant command operational plans, 
steady-state campaign plans, and USAF campaign support plans. 
2.2.7.  Director for Studies, Analyses and Assessments (AF/A9)  will: 
2.2.7.1.  Provide analytic insights to support the Countering WMD Enterprise through 
application of analytical techniques such as campaign modeling analysis and risk 
assessment. 
2.2.7.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.7.3.  Director of Future Warfare Analysis (AF/A9I  ), will develop and maintain a 
capability, within AF/A9I or with partner organizations, to model, simulate, and assess the 
operational impact of CBRN attacks on air forces and bases. 
2.2.8.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
(AF/A10)  will: 
2.2.8.1.  Lead the DAF’s Countering WMD Enterprise to coordinate and synchronize 
efforts listed in paragraph 1.2.3. 
2.2.8.2.  Chair the DAF Countering WMD Council and Countering WMD Integration 
Group. 
2.2.8.3.  Serve as the DAF Operations lead for the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense 
Program. 
2.2.8.4.  Serve as the lead for Nuclear Operations, Nuclear Defense policy and issues, and 
conventional-nuclear integration. 
2.2.8.5.  Chief, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (AF/A10S)  will: 
2.2.8.5.1.  Serve as the Executive Secretary of the DAF Countering WMD Council (see 
Attachment 2) to: 
2.2.8.5.1.1.  Identify and vet through DAF senior leader forums potential issues, 
and impacts on the Countering WMD Enterprise stemming from evolving national 
policies, strategies, studies, and reviews. 
2.2.8.5.1.2.  Plan and execute the DAF Countering WMD Council and the 
Countering WMD Integration Group. 
2.2.8.5.1.3.  Chair the Countering WMD Policy Working Group and other ad hoc 
working groups as required. 
2.2.8.5.2.  Serve as the DAF lead to develop, integrate, and synchronize cross-
functional countering WMD concepts, strategy, policy, plans, programs, and doctrine, 
including: 
 
 
16 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.2.8.5.2.1.  Participate in Joint and DAF requirements; acquisition; and 
programming, planning, budgeting, and execution processes to incorporate 
countering WMD requirements. 
2.2.8.5.2.2.  In coordination with AF/A2/6 and USSF Director of Intelligence, 
Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (SF/S2), ensure that assessments of WMD 
threats to USAF and USSF operations and that emerging threat data are delivered 
to the operational community at the lowest feasible classification level, assessed for 
impact to operations, and studied for mitigation development, if required. 
2.2.8.5.2.3.  In coordination with AF/A3T, AF/A4C, AF/A9I, and USSF Chief, 
Deterrence Operations Division (SF/S10N), conduct studies and analyses, as well 
as modeling and simulation, to better understand chemical, biological, and nuclear 
threats to USAF and USSF capabilities, missions, and readiness. 
2.2.8.5.2.4.  In coordination with HAF, MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, and DRUs, 
incorporate cross-functional countering WMD operational concepts and standards 
into readiness assessment inspection and reporting criteria. 
2.2.8.5.2.5.  In coordination with the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and 
Education; Space Training and Readiness Command, Air, Land, Sea Applications 
Center; and other Services’ doctrine representatives, draft and review countering 
WMD operational doctrine and tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP) 
publications through the application of operationally proven principles and 
guidance. 
2.2.8.5.2.6.  Review and analyze all documents pertaining to US countering WMD 
strategies, policies, and plans. 
2.2.8.5.2.7.  Integrate scientific and operator-focused countering WMD technical 
expertise in DAF operational concepts, decision aids, and operational risk 
management tools. 
2.2.8.5.2.8.  Lead data collection and analysis pertaining to countering WMD 
assessments and readiness reporting to inform senior leaders of risks to USAF and 
USSF operations against WMD-armed adversaries. Develop metrics, conduct trend 
analysis, and assess performance measures, in coordination with AF/A3T, 
AF/A4C, SF/S10N, and Air Force Medical Readiness Agency (AFMRA), to 
evaluate the readiness and capabilities of the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise 
mission sets and recommend courses of action for improvement. 
2.2.8.5.3.  As the DAF Operations lead for the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense 
Program and Radiological and Nuclear Defense development: 
2.2.8.5.3.1.  Identify, prioritize, and coordinate gaps and vulnerabilities related to 
operating in and through chemical, biological, and nuclear contested, contaminated, 
and/or threat environments.  This includes consolidating and championing related 
major and field command Integrated Priority List (IPL) inputs. See Attachment 3. 
2.2.8.5.3.2.  Identify (in collaboration with AF/A3T, AF/A4C, AFMRA, SF/COO) 
and coordinate DAF planning priorities for the DoD Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program. See Attachment 3. 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
17 
2.2.8.5.3.3.  Coordinate and submit DAF inputs to the Joint Requirements Office 
for CBRN Defense’s Force Planning Constructs. See Attachment 3. 
2.2.8.5.3.4.  Support Director of Civil Engineers (AF/A4C) on the development and 
compilation of the Program Objective Memorandum for the Chemical and 
Biological Defense Program. 
2.2.8.5.3.5.  In support of AF/A5R and SF/S5/8, and in coordination with AF/A3T, 
AF/A4C, AF/SG, MAJCOMs, and FLDCOMs, ensure joint CBRN defense 
capability development documents address USAF and USSF operational 
requirements. 
2.2.8.5.3.6.  Support AF/A10 at Chemical and Biological Defense Program threat 
briefings as the DAF Operations lead and coordinate briefings with AF/A2/6 and 
SF/S2. 
2.2.8.5.4.  In support of AF/A5D, ensure operational requirements and capability 
development documents address consideration for conducting countering WMD 
operations and operating in and through CBRN environments. 
2.2.8.5.5.  When appropriate, conduct periodic assessments of the DAF Countering 
WMD Enterprise’s health (e.g., metrics development and performance measurement). 
2.2.8.5.6.  Represent the USAF and USSF at countering WMD forums established by 
the Secretary of Defense and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or their authorized 
subordinates. 
2.2.8.5.7.  Provide expertise on countering WMD operations and capabilities to HAF, 
MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, Field Operating Agencies, and DRUs. Specifically: 
2.2.8.5.7.1.  Support AF/A2/6 and SF/S2 on issues relating to countering WMD 
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance operations to include coordinating 
emerging threat data, as well as treaty monitoring, counterproliferation interdiction 
issues and the NTNF program. 
2.2.8.5.7.2.  Support AF/A3T on global integration planning and readiness issues 
related to countering WMD operations. 
2.2.8.5.7.3.  Support AF/A5D and SF/S5/8 on the validation of countering WMD 
capabilities through the Joint Requirements Oversight Council and its associated 
Functional Capability Boards. 
2.2.8.5.7.4.  Support the General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force 
(SAF/GC) on issues related to PSI. 
2.2.8.5.7.5.  Support MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, and DRUs with incorporating 
countering WMD considerations into their mobilization and operational planning. 
2.2.8.6.  Chief, Nuclear Force Development (AF/A10D)  will, in partnership with 
AF/A10S, publish nuclear competencies that inform nuclear professional military 
education and professional civilian education curriculum. See Attachment 4 for 
recommended countering WMD competencies. 
18 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.2.8.7.  Chief, Nuclear Policy (AF/A10P)  will provide expertise on arms control and 
nonproliferation treaties and agreements, and conventional-nuclear integration when 
applicable to the planning, programming, and execution of countering WMD operations. 
2.2.8.8.  Chief, Nuclear Capabilities (AF/A10C)  will provide expertise on nuclear 
operations when applicable to the planning, programming, and execution of countering 
WMD operations, and with the application of CBRN Survivability (to include nuclear 
effects hardening) in mission-critical nuclear mission systems. 
2.2.9.  The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA)  will: 
2.2.9.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise in the development and review of 
strategy, plans, policies, procedures, training and operations relating to countering WMD, 
including counterproliferation interdiction and PSI activities, to ensure consistency with 
US law and the obligations of the United States under international law, including the Law 
of War and relevant treaties and international agreements. 
2.2.9.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.9.3.  Director, Operations and International Law Domain (AF/JAO)  will 
coordinate with MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and DRUs Staff Judge Advocates, where 
appropriate, on all legal issues related to countering WMD plans and operations, to include 
the provision of appropriate law of war training in the context of target development. 
2.2.10.  Chief, Air Force Reserve (AF/RE)  will: 
2.2.10.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the capabilities and readiness of the 
Air Force Reserve to support countering WMD operations and operate in and through 
CBRN environments. 
2.2.10.2.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.2.10.3.  Director, Plans, Programs, and Requirements (AF/REX)  will advise the 
Countering WMD Enterprise, in coordination with the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the 
Air Force for Reserve Affairs (SAF/MRR), on the impacts of countering WMD plans, 
policies, and requirements on the Air Force Reserve. 
2.2.11.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG)  will: 
2.2.11.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, readiness, and 
sourcing of USAF medical capabilities and personnel to support countering WMD 
operations, CBRN defense operations, CBRN casualty modeling and assessments, and 
other operations in and through CBRN environments. 
2.2.11.2.  Serve as the DAF Medical lead for the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense 
Program. See paragraph 2.6.3 for Commander, Air Force Medical Readiness Agency 
(AFMRA) responsibilities. 
2.2.11.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups.  
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
19 
2.2.12.  Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE)  will: provide guidance and oversight for 
the planning and execution of test and evaluation of countering WMD and CBRN defense 
systems or capabilities where appropriate in accordance with DoD Instruction (DODI) 
5000.89_DAFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation. 
2.3.  Chief of Space Operations (CSO). 
2.3.1.  Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital (CHCO)  (SF/S1) will: 
2.3.1.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide oversight of, and policy 
recommendations on, the integration of countering WMD operational requirements into 
developing WMD-ready Guardians. 
2.3.1.2.  As career field manager, provide policy, guidance, and oversight on the 
integration of countering WMD operational concepts and requirements into functional area 
programs, publications, and training plans, to include, in coordination with AF/A4C, 
reliable pre-attack planning and post-attack actions to minimize the adverse effects of 
CBRN attacks on mission operations.  See Attachment 4 for recommended countering 
WMD competencies. 
2.3.1.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.3.2.  Deputy 
Chief 
of 
Space 
Operations 
for 
Operations 
(SF/COO) 
(SF/S2/3/4/6/7/10)  will provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, 
readiness, and sourcing of USSF capabilities and personnel to conduct countering WMD 
operations. 
2.3.2.1.  Ensure considerations for countering WMD operations and operating in and 
through CBRN environments are incorporated into space operations. 
2.3.2.2.  Provide technical implementation of countering WMD mission essential tasks in 
DRRS and coordinate requirements with FLDCOMs, Units, and Combatant Commands. 
2.3.2.3.  Through the SF/S2, participate in planning activities designed to improve the 
capability of space-based intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance (ISR) and 
communication assets to support national countering WMD operations. 
2.3.2.4.  Analyze space requirements for countering WMD operations and recommend 
program priorities. 
2.3.2.5.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.3.3.  Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Strategy and Resources (CSRO) 
(SF/S5/8)  will advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
integration of countering WMD operational requirements into USSF capabilities. 
2.3.3.1.  Advise the DAF Countering WMD Council and its associated working groups on 
impacts of countering WMD and CBRN defense requirements on USSF capabilities. 
2.3.3.2.  Guide resourcing priorities to improve USSF ability to support joint countering 
WMD operations and operate in and through CBRN environments. 
20 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.3.3.3.  Ensure considerations for conducting countering WMD operations and operating 
in and through CBRN environments are included in FLDCOM POM build guidance. 
2.3.3.4.  Ensure considerations for conducting countering WMD operations and operating 
in and through CBRN environments are incorporated into USSF strategic plans and future 
force concepts. 
2.3.3.5.  Ensure considerations for conducting countering WMD operations and operating 
in and through CBRN environments are included in USSF war gaming, exercises, and 
assessments. 
2.3.3.6.  Ensure considerations for conducting countering WMD operations and operating 
in and through CBRN environments are included in USSF operations policy and guidance 
for planning, execution, global integration, and assessment in support of combatant 
command operational plans, steady-state campaign plans, and USSF campaign support 
plans. 
2.3.3.7.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.3.4.  Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Technology and Innovation (SF/CTIO)  will: 
2.3.4.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
application of future USSF capabilities to support countering WMD operations. 
2.3.4.2.  Ensure considerations for operating in and through CBRN environments are 
addressed in future USSF capabilities. 
2.3.4.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering 
WMD Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.4.  Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF) will. 
2.4.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the capabilities and readiness of the Air 
National Guard to support countering WMD operations. 
2.4.2.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the impacts of countering WMD plans, 
policies, and operational requirements on the Air National Guard. 
2.4.3.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering WMD 
Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.5.  Commanders, United States Air Force Major Commands and Commanders, United 
States Space Force Field Commands will. 
2.5.1.  Identify an office of primary responsibility at the headquarters for supporting countering 
WMD operations and developing and analyzing associated needs and operational 
requirements. In order to understand and assess WMD threats, assigned individuals must have 
an adjudicated Top Secret level clearance and be eligible for Special Compartmented 
Information. Provide AF/A10S points of contact and update as required. 
2.5.2.  Establish and charter a cross-functional council at headquarters, or leverage an existing 
one, to address major and field command issues related to conducting countering WMD 
operations. 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
21 
2.5.3.  Review all taskings under Department of Defense, Joint, and DAF Directives and 
assigned missions for the various regional plans. Specifically: 
2.5.3.1.  Identify and support countering WMD related tasks, responsibilities, and 
operational military objectives assigned by these regional plans 
2.5.3.2.  Identify vulnerabilities and shortfalls through appropriate reporting channels to 
include incorporation of countering WMD-related items in the Combatant Command’s 
IPL. 
2.5.3.3.  Continually evaluate these plans and Joint Staff guidance for changes in assigned 
missions and objectives that may modify required tasks. 
2.5.4.  In support of countering WMD operations against WMD-armed competitors and 
adversaries: 
2.5.4.1.  Organize, train, and equip assigned forces to deter and deny an adversary’s 
acquisition and use of WMD and, when necessary, find and control, disrupt, or destroy 
their WMD capabilities. 
2.5.4.2.  Coordinate with and support, as required, Air Force Materiel Command Air Force 
Installation Management Center’s efforts to organize, train, and equip air and space forces 
for CBRN defense. See DAFI 10-2501 and AFMAN 10-2503. 
2.5.5.  Support their wing, delta, installation, and unit commanders’ efforts to develop WMD-
ready Airmen and Guardians to succeed in the future high-end fight against WMD-armed 
competitors and adversaries. 
2.5.6.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Countering WMD 
Integration Group, and associated working groups. 
2.5.7.  In support of PSI: 
2.5.7.1.  Provide planning support and forces, as required, to support combatant command 
participation in PSI activities. Activities may include Stand-Alone PSI events, such as field 
training demonstrations, tabletops, and partner nation engagements, and other PSI-related 
events, as required. 
2.5.7.2.  Program operations and maintenance funds, and steady state Military Personnel 
Appropriation man-days to support PSI activities, as required. 
2.5.7.3.  Coordinate with combatant commands to plan and ensure strategic lift, 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, and other required USAF and USSF 
resources are available to support exercises and operations, as real world conditions allow. 
2.5.7.4.  Assist subordinate units in supporting PSI activities, as required. 
2.5.8.  Commander, Air Combat Command (ACC)  will: 
2.5.8.1.  Develop doctrine, concepts, organization, materiel requirements, and objectives 
for Chemical and Biological defense aircrew flight equipment and, in coordination with 
AFMC, oversee their development, testing, fielding and sustainment, to include: 
2.5.8.1.1.  Representing the user community in the joint materiel acquisition process. 
22 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.5.8.1.2.  Reviewing and providing comments to capabilities documents to ensure the 
proposed solution adequately meets mission needs by participating in requirements 
generation through the Joint Requirements Office for CBRN Defense (JRO-CBRND) 
Integrated Concept Teams for CBRN Defense. 
2.5.8.2.  In coordination with Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), monitor the 
development, testing, fielding and sustainment of radiological and nuclear defense aircrew 
flight equipment for combat air forces. 
2.5.8.3.  Develop doctrine, concepts, organization, materiel requirements, and objectives 
for WMD defeat capabilities and oversee their development, testing, fielding and 
sustainment. 
2.5.8.4.  Through Command Surgeon, Air Combat Command (ACC/SG), as the 
Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsible Agency (MRA) for 
medical ground-based unit type codes (UTC) and the lead MAJCOM for Medical CBRN 
Defense Program, will: 
2.5.8.4.1.  Develop doctrine, concepts, organization, materiel requirements, and 
objectives for ground medical CBRN defense equipment, research, development, and 
acquisition initiatives for Air Force Medical Service-specific materiel (i.e. non-joint 
material) acquisition process and, oversee their development, testing, fielding and 
sustainment. (T-1) 
2.5.8.4.2.  Oversee the training, testing, and capturing of ground medical 
recommendations on current countering WMD operations and activities. (T-1) 
2.5.8.4.3.  As the ground medical capabilities subject matter expert, attend Integrated 
Product Teams (IPT), exercises, and working group meetings. (T-1) 
2.5.8.4.4.  Provide input to CBRN defense related Initial Capabilities Documents, 
Capability Development Documents, Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, 
Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy (DOTMLPF-P) Change 
Recommendation (DCR), and other documents where ground medical capabilities are 
included. Forward input to AFMRA for consideration, consolidation, and submission. 
(T-1) 
2.5.8.4.5.  Ensure medical CBRN defense capability will be operationally effective, 
suitable, and ready for mission employment. (T-1) 
2.5.8.4.6.  Coordinate sustainment of medical CBRN defense equipment medical 
countermeasures and diagnostics (e.g., warranty, funding consumables, Contractor 
Logistics Support, repair and replacement). (T-1) 
2.5.8.5.  Commander, 16th Air Force  will provide the HAF, MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, 
and DRUs intelligence regarding adversary WMD threats to the United States and its allies 
and partners in order to inform DOTMLPF-P planning, research, strategy, and operational 
concept development. (T-1) 
2.5.8.5.1.  Commander, Air Force Technical Applications Center (AFTAC) will: 
2.5.8.5.1.1.  Monitor nuclear treaty compliance. (T-0) 
2.5.8.5.1.2.  Develop proliferation monitoring technologies. (T-1) 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
23 
2.5.8.5.1.3.  Operate and maintain a global network of nuclear event detection 
sensors to support treaty monitoring and other missions. (T-0) 
2.5.8.5.1.4.  Provide USAF capabilities that enable DoD support to the NTNF 
program. (T-0) 
2.5.8.5.2.  Commander, 557th Weather Wing (557 WW) will ensure operational 
weather squadrons provide meteorological information necessary for the production of 
chemical downwind messages, and effective downwind and basic wind data messages 
for radiological fallout. (T-1) 
2.5.9.  Commander, Air Education and Training Command (AETC)  will integrate 
countering WMD operational requirements into the education and training of the USAF Total 
Force, to include appropriate professional military education courses, using Attachment 4 as 
appropriate. (T-1) 
2.5.9.1.  Director of the Air Force Center for Strategic Deterrence Studies  will: 
2.5.9.1.1.  Support research and education on strategic deterrence, to include nuclear 
deterrence and countering WMD operations, at Air University schools, and provide 
input to Air University core curriculum and faculty development. (T-1) 
2.5.9.1.2.  Organize strategic deterrence conferences, establish an information 
repository and clearing house, establish a speaker series, publishing books and papers 
on important strategic deterrence issues, provide strategic deterrence courses and 
briefings to senior officers, and provide strategic deterrence curriculum and faculty 
development support to the Air University. (T-1) 
2.5.9.1.3.  Support the development of DAF policy, doctrine, concepts of operation, 
and education, training, and exercises relating to nuclear deterrence and countering 
WMD operations. (T-1) 
2.5.9.2.  Director of the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education  , as 
the USAF Principal Agent for basic and operational USAF Doctrine, will develop USAF 
countering WMD doctrine and ensure countering WMD considerations are included, as 
appropriate, in basic and operational USAF doctrine. (T-1) 
2.5.10.  Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC)  will: 
2.5.10.1.  Develop doctrine, concepts, organization, materiel requirements, and objectives 
for Radiological and Nuclear defense aircrew flight equipment and, in coordination with 
AFMC, oversee their development, testing, fielding and sustainment. Represent the user 
community in the joint materiel acquisition process. 
2.5.10.2.  Provide operational and technical expertise on strategic deterrence 
considerations for countering WMD operations. 
2.5.11.  Commander, Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC)  will: 
2.5.11.1.  Assist AF/A10 to coordinate USAF operational planning and doctrine issues 
with US Special Operations Command, the DoD Coordinating Authority for countering 
WMD. 
24 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.5.11.2.  In coordination with ACC, will develop doctrine, concepts, organization, 
materiel requirements, and objectives for special operations forces’ chemical and 
biological defense aircrew flight equipment and oversee their development, testing, 
fielding and sustainment. Represent the user community in the joint materiel acquisition 
process. 
2.5.11.3.  In coordination with AFGSC, will develop doctrine, concepts, organization, 
materiel requirements, and objectives for special operations forces’ radiological and 
nuclear defense aircrew flight equipment and oversee their development, testing, fielding 
and sustainment. Represent the user community in the joint materiel acquisition process. 
2.5.11.4.  Command 
Surgeon, 
Air 
Force 
Special 
Operations 
Command 
(AFSOC/SG)  , as MRA for special operations medical UTCs, will:  
2.5.11.4.1.  Develop doctrine, concepts, organization, materiel requirements, and 
objectives for special operations medical CBRN defense equipment for USAF Medical 
Service-specific materiel (i.e. non-joint material) acquisition process and, in 
coordination with ACC, oversee their development, testing, fielding and sustainment. 
(T-1) 
2.5.11.4.2.  Oversee the training, testing, and capturing of special operations medical 
recommendations on current countering WMD operations and activities. (T-1) 
2.5.11.4.3.  As the special operations medical capabilities subject matter expert, attend 
IPTs, exercises, and working group meetings. (T-1) 
2.5.11.4.4.  Provide input to CBRN defense related Initial Capabilities Documents, 
Capability Development Documents, DOTMLPF-P Change Recommendation, and 
other documents where special operations medical capabilities are included. Forward 
input to AFMRA for consideration, consolidation, and submission. (T-1) 
2.5.11.4.5.  Ensure medical CBRN defense capability will be operationally effective, 
suitable, and ready for mission employment. (T-1) 
2.5.11.4.6.  Coordinate sustainment of medical CBRN defense equipment medical 
countermeasures and diagnostics (e.g., warranty, funding consumables, Contractor 
Logistics Support, repair and replacement). (T-1) 
2.5.12.  Commander, Air Mobility Command (AMC)  will: 
2.5.12.1.  In coordination with ACC, monitor the development, testing, fielding and 
sustainment of chemical and biological defense aircrew flight equipment for mobility air 
forces. 
2.5.12.2.  In coordination with AFGSC, monitor the development, testing, fielding and 
sustainment of radiological and nuclear defense aircrew flight equipment for mobility air 
forces. 
2.5.12.3.  Command Surgeon, Air Mobility Command (AMC/SG)  , as the MRA for en 
route care, the Patient Movement Items (PMI) program, and En route Care Safe-to-Fly 
program, will: 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
25 
2.5.12.3.1.  Develop doctrine, concepts, organization, materiel requirements, and 
objectives for en route care, the PMI program, and En route Care Safe-to-Fly program 
CBRN defense equipment for USAF Medical Service-specific materiel (i.e. non-joint 
material) acquisition process and, in coordination with ACC, oversee their 
development, testing, fielding and sustainment. (T-1) 
2.5.12.3.2.  Oversee the training, testing, and capturing of en route care, the PMI 
program, and En route Care Safe-to-Fly program recommendations on current 
countering WMD operations and activities. (T-1) 
2.5.12.3.3.  As the en route care, the PMI program, and En route Care Safe-to-Fly 
program capabilities subject matter expert, attend IPTs, exercises, and working group 
meetings. (T-1) 
2.5.12.3.4.  Provide input to CBRN defense related Initial Capabilities Documents, 
Capability Development Documents, DOTMLPF-P Change Recommendation, and 
other documents where en route care, the PMI program, and En route Care Safe-to-Fly 
program capabilities are included. Forward input to AFMRA for consideration, 
consolidation, and submission. (T-1) 
2.5.12.3.5.  Ensure medical CBRN defense capability will be operationally effective, 
suitable, and ready for mission employment. (T-1) 
2.5.12.3.6.  Coordinate sustainment of medical CBRN defense equipment medical 
countermeasures and diagnostics (e.g., warranty, funding consumables, Contractor 
Logistics Support, repair and replacement). (T-1) 
2.5.13.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC),  in conjunction with 
SAF/AQ and user MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, and DRUs, will: 
2.5.13.1.  Support the acquisition of all materiel designed to establish and/or maintain a 
countering WMD operational capability and support operating in and through CBRN 
environments. 
2.5.13.2.  Commander, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center 
(AFIMSC)  , will: 
2.5.13.2.1.  Provide countering WMD enterprise-wide investment recommendations to 
the DAF, including civil engineering and base infrastructure supporting countering 
WMD operations with the intent to prioritize investments in facilities, unique systems, 
logistics readiness, security forces, and transportation. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.2.  Advocate for, prioritize, and implement resources, to include, for CBRN 
threat defense capabilities associated with installation infrastructure, security, mission 
support, and the organizing, training, and equipping of forces. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.3.  Commander, Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC)  will serve as 
the capability requirement validation authority for CBRN defense capabilities 
associated with airbase infrastructure (fixed and expeditionary), fire, explosive 
ordnance disposal, and emergency management missions. (T-1) 
 
 
26 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.5.13.2.4.  Air Force Civil Engineer Center, in collaboration with the Theater Air 
Forces respective A4C and A5R, for the protection and recovery domains of CBRN 
threat defense capabilities associated with airbase infrastructure (fixed and 
expeditionary), explosive ordnance disposal, and emergency management missions, 
will, through its Director of Readiness (AFCEC/CX) 
2.5.13.2.4.1.  Serve as the DAF Capability Developer for CBRN defense 
capabilities that minimize the effects of adversary WMD attacks associated with 
airbase infrastructure (fixed and expeditionary), fire, explosive ordnance disposal, 
and emergency management missions; in accordance with AFPD 10-25, 
Emergency Management, and AFI 10-2501. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.4.2.  Conduct the necessary studies and analyses using DAF and Joint 
Concepts, Theater Operations Plans, Threat Assessments, Theater Concepts of 
Operations, and strategic guidance to identify and document operational capability 
gaps, risks, requirements and courses of action within the DOTMLPF-P trade 
space. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.4.3.  Conduct Requirements Management through the life-cycle of CBRN 
threat defense capabilities to include the development and update of Initial 
Capabilities Documents (ICD) and Capability Development Documents (CDD) in 
accordance with the AFCEC Capability Assessment and Requirements Process in 
coordination with appropriate acquisition and sustainment offices. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.4.4.  Develop and update Concepts of Employment, Mission Profiles, and 
unit type codes (UTC) configurations for CBRN threat defense capabilities as part 
of the capability baseline. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.4.5.  Conduct Capability Management through the life-cycle of CBRN 
threat defense capabilities to include DCRs, fielding strategies, sustainment plans, 
training plans, standard operating procedures and tactics, techniques, and 
procedures, and replacement strategies in accordance with the AFCEC Capability 
Assessment and Requirements Process and PPBE process in coordination with 
appropriate acquisition/sustainment offices. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.4.6.  Review and provide comments to capabilities documents to ensure 
the proposed solution adequately meets mission needs by participating in 
requirements generation through the Joint Requirements Office for CBRN Defense 
(JRO-CBRND) Integrated Concept Teams for CBRN Defense. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.4.7.  Prepare and manage formal CBRN defense training courses and 
products for Airmen, Guardians and other base populace personnel, including 
senior leaders, to enable performance of non-medical CBRN defense tasks and 
missions on installations. (T-1) 
2.5.13.2.5.  Commander,  Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC) will 
contribute to the identification and development of countering WMD technologies to 
include protection of assets, convoys, counter-small unmanned aerial systems. (T-1) 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
27 
2.5.13.3.  Commander,  Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC), 
through the Director, Agile Combat Support Directorate, Senior Materiel Leader of 
the Air Force Human Systems Division (AFLCMC/WNU), will coordinate with 
AF/A4C, AFCEC/CX, ACC/A3T, and AFMRA/SG to support and provide acquisition 
expertise to the DAF for all CBRN defense equipment programs. (T-1) Specifically, 
AFLCMC/WNU will: 
2.5.13.3.1.  Provide acquisition and sustainment recommendations and oversight to 
ensure DAF capability needs are addressed by CBRN defense programs and initiatives. 
(T-1) 
2.5.13.3.2.  Review capability documentation DAF Annexes and ensure that they are 
both included as appropriate to acquisition and sustainment documents and consistent 
across documents. (T-1) 
2.5.13.3.3.  Provide recommendations to DAF to accept or reject submitted CBRN 
defense equipment and procedures based on acquisition expertise and a thorough 
understanding of USAF and USSF warfighter needs and requirements to ensure those 
needs and requirements are achievable. (T-1) 
2.5.13.3.4.  Review and provide comments to capabilities documents to ensure the 
proposed solution adequately meets mission needs by participating in requirements 
generation through the Joint Requirements Office for CBRN Defense (JRO-CBRND) 
Integrated Concept Teams for CBRN Defense. (T-1) 
2.5.13.3.5.  Support development of USAF and USSF tactics, techniques, and 
procedures in coordination with ACC/A3, AFCEC/CXR, AFMRA, MAJCOMs, 
FLDCOMs, and DRUs. (T-1) 
2.5.13.3.6.  Collaborate with the medical, non-medical, and aircrew capability 
Developers to provide the CBRN Defense Modernization Working Group program 
status of the Chemical and Biological Defense Program portfolio. (T-1) 
2.5.13.3.7.  Lifecycle management of sustainment for CBRN defense equipment (e.g., 
operational safety, suitability and effectiveness, provisioning, technical data, and 
technical orders). (T-1) 
2.5.13.4.  Commander,  Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) will: 
2.5.13.4.1.  Serve as the DAF representative to JSTO. (T-1) 
2.5.13.4.2.  Plan and execute the countering WMD Science and Technology program, 
scientific research that supports the development of technology for military 
capabilities, to include developing proliferation monitoring technologies. (T-1) 
2.5.13.4.3.  Provide the DAF Countering WMD Council Modernization Working 
Group real time status of developing countering WMD science and technology, to 
include the Chemical and Biological Defense Program portfolio. (T-1) 
2.5.14.  Commander, Space Operations Command (SpOC)  will find and characterize 
space threats in support of countering WMD futures planning, acquisition and sustainment, 
and operations and enable Airmen and Guardians to operate in and through CBRN 
environments. (T-1) 
28 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.5.15.  Commander, Space Training and Readiness Command (STARCOM)  will: 
2.5.15.1.  Consider how to integrate countering WMD doctrine and operational concepts 
into appropriate professional military education courses, using Attachment 4, as 
appropriate. (T-1) 
2.5.15.2.  Ensure countering WMD considerations are included, as appropriate, in basic 
and operational USSF doctrine. (T-1) 
2.6.  Directors of Field Operating Agencies  will: 
2.6.1.  Ensure plans reflect CBRN vulnerabilities and include protective measures appropriate 
for the threat and mission. (T-1) 
2.6.2.  Participate in countering WMD training and exercises conducted by host installations. 
(T-1) 
2.6.3.  Commander, Air Force Medical Readiness Agency (AFMRA)  will: 
2.6.3.1.  Develop, evaluate, and implement medical policy and guidance inputs to inform 
operational analysis, operational concept development and requirements determination 
throughout the modernization process, including supporting the submission of formal 
USAF medical CBRN defense requirements. (T-1) 
2.6.3.2.  Represent the USAF Medical Service at the DAF Countering WMD Integration 
Group and associated working groups. (T-1) 
2.6.3.3.  Determine medical CBRN defense research, development, and acquisition 
initiatives and requirements. (T-1) 
2.6.3.4.  Produce and collect inputs that establish medical CBRN defense capability 
requirements, key performance parameters/knowledge, skills, and abilities, and oversee 
initial employment concepts of operations (e.g., quantities, deployable and home station 
equipment, and training). (T-1) 
2.6.3.5.  Determine recommendations for the DAF to accept or reject submitted medical 
CBRN defense equipment, medical countermeasures, diagnostics, and procedures. (T-1) 
2.6.3.6.  Identify, validate, and elevate medical CBRN defense requirements to the DAF 
Countering WMD Council Modernization Working Group for consideration in DAF 
priorities for the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense Program. (T-1) 
2.6.3.7.  Coordinate WMD and CBRN threat assessments and medical intelligence through 
National Center for Medical Intelligence and appropriate intelligence organizations. 
2.6.3.8.  Monitor programming to fund medical CBRN defense sustainment, training, 
proficiency, and exercises. (T-1) 
2.6.3.9.  Identify and advocate for DAF medical equities in DoD, Joint, and inter-Service 
countering WMD forums, to include the DAF Countering WMD Council Integration 
Group and associated working groups. (T-1) 
2.6.3.10.  Develop and disseminate medical CBRN defense policy to MAJCOMs, 
FLDCOMs, and Medical Equipment Force Package Responsible Agencies (MRAs) to 
inform TTPs, allowance standards, fielding, and sustainment plans. (T-1) 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
29 
2.6.3.11.  Provide medical CBRN defense expertise to the Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program DAF POM build process. (T-1) 
2.6.3.12.  Provide USAF Medical Service representation at medical CBRN defense 
Integrated Capabilities Teams, IPTs, source selections, exercises, and working group 
meetings. (T-1) 
2.6.3.13.  Provide USAF Medical Service input to CBRN defense related Initial 
Capabilities Documents, Capability Development Documents, DOTMLPF-P Change 
Recommendations, and all other documents that are part of the Defense Acquisition 
System. (T-1) 
2.6.3.14.  Monitor Knowledge Management/Decision Support and Information & 
Resource Support System (IRSS) for CBRN defense related JCIDS coordination; 
consolidate and submit comments into KM/DS or IRSS. (T-1) 
2.6.4.  Commander, Cyberspace Capabilities Center (CCC)  will ensure command, 
control, communication, computer, and intelligence systems consider and support countering 
WMD requirements and interoperability. (T-1) 
2.6.5.  Director of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations  (AFOSI) will: 
2.6.5.1.  Train and equip AFOSI personnel to conduct and support countering WMD 
operations, where appropriate. (T-1) 
2.6.5.2.  Serve as a liaison with the Federal Bureau of Investigation for domestic CBRN 
terrorism incidents and with host nation investigative services for foreign incidents. (T-1) 
2.6.5.3.  Provide counterintelligence support to installation CBRN threat assessments and 
vulnerability assessments, to include preventing loss or theft of proliferation-sensitive 
CBRN materiel and/or technology. (T-1) 
2.6.5.4.  Provide counterintelligence support to safeguard DAF countering WMD 
technologies, programs, critical program information, personnel, and facilities. (T-1) 
2.6.6.  Director of the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC)  will find and 
characterize air, missile, and cyber threats in support of countering WMD futures planning, 
acquisition and sustainment, and operations and enable Airmen and Guardians to operate in 
and through CBRN environments. (T-1) 
2.7.  Directors of Direct Reporting Units (DRU) will. 
2.7.1.  Ensure plans reflect CBRN vulnerabilities and include protective measures appropriate 
for the threat and mission. (T-1) 
2.7.2.  Participate in countering WMD training and exercises conducted by host installations. 
(T-1) 
2.7.3.  Commander, Air Force District of Washington (AFDW)  will: 
2.7.3.1.  Identify an office of primary responsibility at the headquarters for supporting 
countering WMD operations and developing and analyzing associated needs and 
requirements. In order to understand and assess WMD threats, assigned individuals must 
have an adjudicated Top Secret level clearance and be eligible for Special Compartmented 
Information. Provide AF/A10S points of contact and update as required. (T-1) 
30 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
2.7.3.2.  Ensure countering WMD issues are raised to an appropriate, chartered, cross-
functional HQ/AFDW working group. (T-1) 
2.7.3.3.  Review all tasks under Defense, Joint, and DAF Directives and assigned missions 
for the various regional plans. (T-1) Specifically: 
2.7.3.3.1.  Identify and support countering WMD related tasks, responsibilities, and 
operational military objectives assigned by these regional plans. (T-1) 
2.7.3.3.2.  Identify vulnerabilities and shortfalls through appropriate reporting channels 
to include incorporation of countering WMD-related items in the Command’s IPL. 
2.7.3.3.3.  Continually evaluate these plans and Joint Staff guidance for changes in 
assigned missions and objectives that may modify required tasks. (T-1) 
2.7.3.4.  Organize, train, and equip assigned forces to support Joint countering WMD 
operations against WMD-armed competitors and adversaries. (T-1) 
2.7.3.5.  Support their wing, installation, and unit commanders’ efforts to develop WMD-
ready Airmen and Guardians to succeed in the future high-end fight against WMD-armed 
competitors and adversaries. (T-1) 
2.7.3.6.  Designate representatives to the DAF Countering WMD Council, Integration 
Group, and associated working groups, when appropriate. (T-1) 
2.7.4.  Director of the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center 
(AFOTEC)  will: 
2.7.4.1.  Plan, participate in, or conduct operational tests and evaluation of countering 
WMD and CBRN defense operational capabilities, where appropriate. (T-1) 
2.7.4.2.  Provide technical expertise on operational functionality of new capabilities during 
development of capability documents in accordance with the Joint Capabilities Integration 
and Development System and execute operational tests to evaluate programs’ 
effectiveness, suitability and survivability. (T-1) 
2.7.4.3.  Provide Milestone Assessment Reports for each milestone in a program’s 
acquisition lifecycle. (T-1) 
2.7.4.4.  For Joint CBRN defense capabilities, verify component Testing & Evaluation 
(T&E) performed by an Army Operational Test Agency to ensure DAF interests are taken 
into consideration to inform program purchase and fielding decisions. (T-1) 
2.7.4.5.  Evaluate technology capabilities in an operational environment. (T-1) 
2.7.4.6.  Advise Lead Operational Command to ensure specified requirements are testable, 
identify operational constraints, and assist in defining key performance parameters. (T-1) 
2.8.  Commanders, Wing, Delta, Unit, and Installations will. 
2.8.1.  Lead, exercise, and execute operations in support of joint operational plans and 
countering WMD objectives against WMD-armed adversaries and, if necessary, while 
operating in and through CBRN environments. (T-1) 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
31 
2.8.2.  Develop WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians to succeed in the future high-end fight 
against WMD-armed competitors and adversaries. 
2.8.3.  Use validated threat assessments and intelligence to determine priorities for capability 
enhancements, training, exercises, requirements for outside support, and mitigation efforts. (T-
1) 
 
JAMES C. DAWKINS JR., Lt Gen, USAF 
DCS, Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration 
32 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 5160.05E, Roles and Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program (CBDP), Change 2, 18 July 2019 
DoDI 3020.52, DoD Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield  
Explosive (CBRNE) Preparedness Standards, 18 May 2012 
CJCSI 5113.03A, Counterproliferation Interdiction Policy, 25 September 2012 (S/NF) 
CJCSI 3520.02C, U.S. Military Support to the Proliferation Security Initiative, 24 May 2019 
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 23 April 2019 
AFPD 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, 20 August 2019 
DAFPD 36-81, Total Force Human Resource Management Governance, 23 October 2020 
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 1 July 2019 
DAFPD 90-3, The Inspector General, 3 February 2021 
AFPD 90-6, Air Force Strategy, Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (SPPBE) 
Process, 26 June 2019 
HAFMD 1-24, Special Management, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and 
Reserve Affairs), 28 January 2019 
DAFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program, Incorporating DAFGM 2021-01, 
17 June 2021 
DAFI 10-2601, Electromagnetic Pulse Survivability Program, 11 January 2022 
AFI 10-2607, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Survivability, 9 August 2018 
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Documentation and Validation. 27 April 
2021 
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment Program, 10 October 2017 
AFI 13-500, Air Force Nuclear Mission Responsibilities, 14 November 2018 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFI 36-2670, Total Force Development, Incorporating DAFGM 12 October 2021 
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 8 December 2014 
DoDI 5000.89_DAFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 9 December 2021 
AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) 
Environment, 14 May 2019 
DAFMAN 65-605, V1, Budget Guidance and Technical Procedures, 31 March 2021 
AFH 36-2647, Competency Modeling, 25 April 2019 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
33 
Joint Publication (JP) 3-40, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, 27 November 2019 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AETC—Air Education and Training Command 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (USAF) 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations (USAF)  
AF/A2/6A—Director, Analysis, Partnerships and Engagement (USAF) 
AF/A2/6C-A3C—Director, Cyberspace Operations and Warfighter Communications (USAF) 
AF/A2/6N—Director, National Aviation Intelligence Integration Office (USAF) 
AF/A2/6O—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations (USAF) 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (USAF) 
AF/A3O—Director of Current Operations (USAF) 
AF/A3T—Director of Training and Readiness (USAF) 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics Engineering and Force Protection (USAF) 
AF/A4C—Director of Civil Engineers (USAF) 
AF/A4L—Director of Logistics (USAF) 
AF/A4S—Director of Security Forces (USAF) 
AF/A5—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy, Integration and Requirements (USAF) 
AF/A5I—Director, Air Force Futures (USAF) 
AF/A5D—Director of Operational Capability Requirements (USAF) 
AF/A5S—Director of Strategy, Concepts, and Assessments (USAF) 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (USAF) 
AF/A8P—Director of Programs (USAF) 
AF/A8X—Director of Strategic Plans (USAF) 
AF/A9—Director for Studies, Analyses and Assessments (USAF) 
AF/A9I—Director of Future Warfare Analysis (USAF) 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (USAF) 
AF/A10C—Chief, Nuclear Capabilities Division (USAF) 
AF/A10D—Chief, Nuclear Force Development (USAF) 
34 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
AF/A10P—Chief, Nuclear Policy Division (USAF) 
AF/A10S—Chief, Countering WMD Division (USAF) 
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center 
AFCEC/CX—Air Force Civil Engineer Center Director of Readiness 
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington 
AFDP—Air Force Doctrine Publication 
AFH—Air Force Handbook 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFIMSC—Air Force Installation & Mission Support Center 
AF/JA—Air Force Judge Advocate General 
AF/JAO—Director, Operations and International Law Domain (USAF) 
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center 
AFLCMC/WNU—Senior Materiel Leader of the Air Force Human Systems Division 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
AFMRA—Air Force Medical Readiness Agency 
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations 
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory 
AF/RE—Chief, Air Force Reserve 
AF/REX—Director, Plans, Programs and Requirements (USAF) 
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code 
AFSFC—Air Force Security Forces Center 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
AFTAC—Air Force Technical Applications Center 
AMC—Air Mobility Command 
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear 
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive 
CCC—Cyberspace Capabilities Center 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
35 
CSO—Chief of Space Operations 
DAF—DAF 
DAFI—DAF Instruction 
DAFMAN—DAF Manual 
DAFPD—DAF Policy Directive 
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff 
DCSO—Deputy Chief of Space Operations 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DOTMLPF-P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, 
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy 
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
HAF—Headquarters Air Force 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
IPL—Integrated Priority List 
IPT—Integrated Product Teams 
ISR—intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance 
JP—Joint Publication 
JPEO-CBRND—Joint Program Executive Office for CBRN Defense 
JRO-CBRND—Joint Requirements Office for CBRN Defense 
JSTO—Joint Science and Technology Office 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
MEFPAK—Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging 
MRA—Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging Responsible Agency 
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center 
NTNF—National Technical Nuclear Forensics 
PSI—Proliferation Security Initiative 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics 
SAF/CN—Chief Information Officer 
SAF/CNS—Director, Enterprise Information Technology 
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
36 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
SAF/FMB—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Budget 
SAF/GC—General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force 
SAF/IA—Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force for International Affairs 
SAF/IAP—Director of Policy and Programs 
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of the Inspector General 
SAF/LL—Director, Legislative Liaison 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SAF/MRM—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Force Management Integration 
SAF/MRR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs 
SAF/PA—Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs 
SAF/PAO—Chief, Media Operations Division 
SF/CHCO—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital 
SF/COO—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Operations 
SF/CSRO—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Strategy and Resources 
SF/CTIO—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Technology and Innovation 
SF/S2—Director of Space Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
SF/S10N—Chief, Deterrence Operations Division (USSF) 
UAS—Unmanned Aircraft System 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USD(A&S)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
USSF—United States Space Force 
UTC—Unit Type Code 
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction 
557 WW—557thWeather Wing 
Terms 
Terms listed here are in addition to—Those defined in the Department of Defense Dictionary 
of Military and Associated Terms. 
Counterproliferation Interdiction—A proactive United States government mission for 
deterring, making more costly, inhibiting, disrupting, and preventing trafficking in shipments of 
proliferation concern. (CJCSI 5113.03A)  
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Enterprise—People, organizations, processes, 
procedures, and systems conducting, executing, and supporting countering WMD operations, and 
developing and implementing related policy and guidance. (AFPD 10-26) 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
37 
Proliferation Security Initiative—An initiative intended to complement and support 
counterproliferation interdiction operations. It provides a voluntary framework through which PSI 
partner nations declare their political will to conduct WMD-related interdictions and then work to 
improve national operational capabilities and domestic legal authorities in order to do so. (CJCSI 
3520.02C) 
WMD Defeat—After acquisition or development of a capability, efforts to target the ability to 
assemble, stockpile, deliver, transfer, or employ WMD. This involves employing tailored 
capabilities to neutralize or destroy weapons and agents; delivery systems; and materials, facilities, 
and processes, including the functional or structural defeat of hardened targets (JP 3-40, 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction). 
WMD Pathway Defeat—. Efforts to prevent development or acquisition of WMD, to include 
conventional, cyberspace, and special operations. Pathway defeat focuses on actions to dissuade, 
deter, delay, disrupt, destroy, divert, or otherwise complicate conceptualization and development 
of WMD. Though not exclusive, WMD pathway defeat actions are often in support to or in close 
collaboration with interagency partners (JP 3-40). 
WMD-Ready Airman/Guardian—a regular, reserve, and National Guard officer and enlisted 
who achieve proficiency in conducting and supporting countering WMD operations, maintain 
CBRN defense training in accordance with DAFI 10-2501, and are trained to perform critical tasks 
in a contested, contaminated, or WMD-threatened environment. 
 
38 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
Attachment 2 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE COUNTERING WEAPONS OF MASS 
DESTRUCTION ENTERPRISE GOVERNING BODIES 
A2.1.  Overview. 
A2.1.1.  The Department of the Air Force, comprised of the USAF and USSF, must perform 
its mission in any environment, including CBRN environments. The development, acquisition, 
proliferation, and use of WMD and related capabilities by our adversaries threatens DAF 
operations and the safety of our Airmen and Guardians. We must organize, train, and equip to 
deter and counter that threat. 
A2.1.2.  In accordance with DAFPD 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, the 
Countering WMD Council leads DAF efforts to meet the objectives of the 2018 National 
Defense Strategy and to implement DoD Directive 2060.02, Department of Defense 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy. These objectives are to dissuade, 
prevent or deter adversaries from developing, acquiring, proliferating or using weapons of 
mass destruction against the United States and its allies and partners. 
A2.2.  Purpose. 
A2.2.1.  The DAF Countering WMD Council is chartered by the Under Secretary of the Air 
Force to address Department wide countering WMD issues. Operating at the enterprise level, 
the Council’s primary role is to: 
A2.2.1.1.  Provide senior-level oversight and direction for the DAF Countering WMD 
Enterprise, including key issues such as policy, requirements, and capabilities 
A2.2.1.2.  Resolve cross-command and cross-functional issues. 
A2.2.2.  The Countering WMD Council ensures DAF countering WMD missions, capabilities, 
and operational requirements are current and relevant to meet emerging needs, as well as 
provide recommended Service positions for USAF and USSF representatives to integrate with 
Joint, Department of Defense (DoD), and Interagency organizations. 
A2.2.3.  The Council also informs, guides, and provides senior leader perspective on key 
elements of the air and space component of countering WMD operations such as planning, 
targeting, equipping and training. 
A2.2.4.  The Council provides DAF senior leader position on countering WMD issues within 
Service, Department, Joint, DoD, and Interagency forums and processes. Accordingly, the 
Council will inform, shape, and approve DAF positions as it relates to countering WMD 
priorities in DoD Program Objective Memorandum processes. 
A2.2.5.  The Council uses existing processes to inform the DAF Corporate Structure to ensure 
countering WMD policy, capabilities, requirements and priorities are consistent with the Joint 
Capabilities Integration and Development System, defense acquisition processes and legal 
constraints, and provides service priorities, vectors and concerns to the Office of the Secretary 
of Defense (OSD), the Joint Staff, other departments and agencies, and the statutorily-
mandated Chemical and Biological Defense Program. 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
39 
A2.2.6.  The Council will address the countering WMD issues presented by its member 
organizations or by one of its working groups (see paragraph A2.3.4). 
A2.3.  Organization. 
A2.3.1.  The Council is one tier of a three-tiered structure (see Figure A2.1) that includes a 
subordinate Countering WMD Integration Group supported by working groups. 
A2.3.2.  The Council is comprised of HAF deputy chief of staff (DCS)-level and deputy chief 
of space operations (DCSO)-level senior military officers and civilian equivalents and 
MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and DRU deputy commanders, and is chaired by AF/A10. 
Figure A2.1.  Countering WMD Council Structure and Membership. 
 
A2.3.3.  The Countering WMD Operations Integration Group provides three-digit DAF 
oversight for all aspects of countering WMD, and acts as a clearing house for the Council. It 
is comprised of 2 or 1-star-level general officers and civilian equivalents, and is chaired by a 
2-star general officer or civilian equivalent from AF/A10. The Countering WMD Integration 
Group will meet semi-annually in advance of Council meetings, and may resolve countering 
WMD issues or submit them to the Council for resolution. 
 
 
40 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
A2.3.4.  Working groups function as the action arms of the Council and are chaired by O-6-
level military officers or civilian equivalents. Two permanent working groups report to the 
Council:  the Countering WMD Policy Working Group (oversees strategy, plans, policy, 
doctrine, and support to operations) and the CBRN Defense Modernization Working Group 
(oversees DAF engagement with the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense Program and 
materiel modernization efforts). The Council may direct the establishment of permanent or ad 
hoc working groups as required. 
A2.4.  Membership. 
A2.4.1.  Council members will have the authority to make decisions and commit their 
organizations with respect to the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise.  HAF, MAJCOM, 
FLDCOMs, DRUs, and DAF agencies that have a stake in the DAF Countering WMD 
Enterprise (see Figure A2.1) will designate a general officer or senior executive civilian 
(Deputy Commander or three-star equivalent) as their Council representative. If the designated 
representative is not available to attend a specific meeting, member organizations may appoint 
an alternate. 
A2.4.2.  The Council serves as the DCS and DCSO-level DAF cross-functional lead for 
countering WMD within the DAF Corporate Process, and as such may nominate countering 
WMD topics for Senior Leader review (issue papers, programming, Deputy’s Management 
Action Group topics, etc.). Additionally, the Council will oversee the development of, validate, 
and advocate for DAF priorities submitted through the corporate process to the Chemical and 
Biological Defense Program. The Council will ordinarily resolve issues brought before it by 
consensus. 
A2.5.  Responsibilities. 
A2.5.1.  As the Council Chair, AF/A10 will ensure the following objectives are met: 
A2.5.1.1.  Critical issues affecting the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise are resolved. 
A2.5.1.2.  Direct periodic DAF Countering WMD Enterprise health assessment, in 
coordination with the appropriate HAF, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, or DRU organizations, and 
provide results to the SecAF, CSAF, and CSO. 
A2.5.1.3.  Issues submitted by the working groups for Council review/action are addressed, 
and that outstanding and/or unresolved issues receive particular emphasis. 
A2.5.1.4.  Council actions are tasked to the appropriate Department organization(s). 
A2.5.1.5.  On behalf of the SecAF, CSAF, and CSO, coordinated Department positions on 
countering WMD issues are presented to DoD, Joint and Interagency organizations and 
forums, consistent with the responsibilities outlined in AFPD 10-26. 
A2.5.1.6.  Robust interaction is established with key non-USAF and USSF countering 
WMD planners within DoD, across the U.S. Government, and with international partners. 
A2.5.1.7.  Countering WMD developments associated with U.S. Special Operations 
Command’s role as the DoD lead for countering WMD are disseminated throughout the 
DAF Countering WMD Enterprise. 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
41 
A2.5.2.  AF/A10S will serve as Executive Secretary of the Council. 
A2.5.3.  The Council members may present to the Council potential issues and/or impacts on 
the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise, including those arising as a result of evolving national 
policies, strategies, studies, and reviews. 
A2.6.  Meetings. 
A2.6.1.  The Council will meet semi-annually and as requested. Any member of the Council 
may request a meeting. 
A2.6.2.  Scheduling of Council meetings will align with established DAF and Office of the 
Secretary of Defense Programming timelines. Generally, a Council meeting will be held in the 
first quarter of each Fiscal Year, prior to the beginning of the upcoming year's programming 
cycle, to provide input on DAF countering WMD equities, to include capabilities developed 
through the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense Program, and their subsequent resourcing 
priorities.  A second Council meeting will be held in the third quarter of each Fiscal Year, prior 
to the submission of DoD Program Objective Memorandums, to assess the resourcing status 
of DAF countering WMD equities, to include capabilities developed through the DoD 
Chemical and Biological Defense Program, and their impact on USAF and USSF operational 
readiness. 
A2.7.  Process. 
A2.7.1.  The Council will establish a process to provide oversight and direction for the 
resolution of issues affecting the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise.  The process is intended 
to provide a documented, repeatable, traceable, and standardized approach for resolving USAF 
and USSF countering WMD issues. 
A2.7.2.  AF/A10 will identify tasks/issues as directed by the Council. 
A2.7.3.  When needed, the Council will designate an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) 
and forward a task/issue to the working groups for action. 
A2.7.4.  OPRs are responsible for all aspects of task/issue resolution. 
A2.7.4.1.  The Council will review and provide feedback to the OPR as appropriate. 
A2.7.4.2.  AF/A10 will review the status of tasks/issues and present closed action plans, 
recommendations, and/or tasks to the Council. 
 
42 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
Attachment 3 
DEVELOPING CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM PRIORITIES 
FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE MISSIONS 
A3.1.  Overview.  As the DAF Operations lead for the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense 
Program and Radiological and Nuclear Defense development, AF/A10 identifies, assesses, 
prioritizes, and coordinates gaps and vulnerabilities related to operating in and through CBRN 
environments. 
A3.2.  Purpose.  AF/A10S accomplishes this annually to ensure that inputs to the DoD Chemical 
and Biological Defense Program POM are informed by the latest threats, operational plans, and 
analysis. 
A3.3.  Identifying and Integrating Gaps and Vulnerabilities. 
A3.3.1.  AF/A10S integrates gaps identified across the force, which may vary by combatant 
commander’s area of operational responsibility depending on specific threats and 
vulnerabilities. 
A3.3.2.  Gaps are solicited directly from across the force through various points of contact at 
each MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRUs, and HAF functional leads. 
A3.3.3.  Gaps are also identified by mining integrated risk assessments, capability gap 
assessments, readiness review reports, combatant commander IPLs, vulnerability assessments, 
and exercise out briefs. 
A3.3.3.1.  Gaps are assessed to determine whether they require material or non-material 
solutions. 
A3.3.3.2.  Operational gaps are further analyzed to determine what specific CBRN 
capability gap(s) may be associated with the operational gap, and vice versa. 
A3.3.4.  Once capability and operational gaps have been compiled they are then synchronized 
to ensure the cumulative list adequately captures CBRN Defense gaps across the force. 
A3.3.4.1.  In coordination with AF/A5R, AF/A4C, and AFIMSC, AF/A10S follows this 
identification and integration of gaps and vulnerabilities to ensure clear communication 
has occurred with the major commands, field commands, and combatant commands. 
A3.3.4.2.  In coordination with the AF/A4C, the gaps identified are provided to the Joint 
Strategic Portfolio Analysis and Review (JSPAR), which, in conjunction with the other 
Services, provides the consolidated Service priority list to inform the Chemical Biological 
Defense Program’s POM. 
A3.4.  Assessing Risk. 
A3.4.1.  Operational risk associated with the identified gaps is assessed to enable the 
prioritization of operational and, subsequently, capability gaps. 
A3.4.2.  The risk assessment and subsequent prioritized list of gaps is coordinated with HAF, 
MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and Direct Reporting Unit stakeholders. 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
43 
A3.5.  Final Product. 
A3.5.1.  The DAF Operations lead provides the prioritized and synchronized list of capability 
gaps to the DAF Modernization lead for the Chemical and Biological Defense Program 
(AF/A4C).  
A3.5.2.  The DAF Modernization lead uses the capability gap list, in conjunction with 
information on advanced development program performance and Science and Technology 
efforts, to develop DAF inputs to the DoD Chemical and Biological Defense Program. 
A3.5.3.  The final product, Air Force Chemical and Biological Defense Program Resourcing 
Priorities, is coordinated with HAF, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and DRU stakeholders. 
 
44 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
Attachment 4 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE COUNTERING WEAPONS OF MASS 
DESTRUCTION CROSS-FUNCTIONAL COMPETENCIES 
A4.1.  Overview. 
A4.1.1.  Purpose. This attachment provides the operational context and countering WMD 
competencies (Table A4.1) recommended to develop WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians, 
across all USAF and USSF functions, which can successfully conduct countering WMD 
operations.  DAF organizations can also use these competencies to develop requirements for 
hiring or developing civilian experts or awarding contracts that support the Countering WMD 
Enterprise. 
A4.1.2.  Operational Context. A robust countering WMD operational capability for the DAF 
is not achieved through a single individual or skill-level, nor is it the responsibility of a single 
functional community. All Airmen, Guardians, and civilians with responsibilities to address 
WMD issues should be proficient, at the appropriate proficiency level, in the competencies of 
1) develop and maintain technical expertise; 2) countering WMD collaboration; 3) countering 
WMD intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; 4) pathway and WMD defeat; and 5) 
countering WMD operations and forces. These five competencies are described in Table A4.1 
For installation level WMD consequence management and CBRN response competencies, 
DoDI 3020.52, DoD Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield 
Explosive (CBRNE) Preparedness Standards, provides baseline requirements expanded and 
clarified within AFPD 10-25, Air Force Emergency Management, DAFI 10-2501 and AFMAN 
10-2503. 
A4.1.2.1.  Proficiency levels are coupled with each competency. From lowest to highest, 
the proficiency levels are Basic, Intermediate, Advanced and Expert—correlating to 
proficiency examples found in AFH 36-2647, Competency Modeling. Proficiency in each 
competency is cumulative; for example, Airmen and Guardians occupying a billet that 
requires an Expert level of proficiency in Counter-WMD Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
Reconnaissance should demonstrate the behaviors of all four proficiency levels in that 
competency. The proficiency levels are defined as follows: 
A4.1.2.1.1.  Basic. Focus is on Airmen and Guardians developing a foundation of 
countering WMD education to be WMD-ready. They are new or relatively new to the 
DAF, acclimating to and learning the fundamental role of the DAF’s nuclear mission. 
Basic proficiency is a general awareness of the countering WMD mission required of 
all Airmen and Guardians. 
A4.1.2.1.2.  Intermediate. WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians continue learning and 
developing countering WMD skills, understanding how to leverage other countering 
WMD experts and other knowledge sources, and beginning to apply their required job 
knowledge to their work. They are learning their role and the impacts of what they do 
on the DAF’s countering WMD mission. 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
45 
A4.1.2.1.3.  Advanced. At this level, WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians leverage 
knowledge of countering WMD strategies and issues to develop, present, and 
implement solutions. They may lead organizations with a countering WMD mission 
and/or supervise teams in direct support of the countering WMD mission, and 
understand the contributions and consequences of their role in the countering WMD 
mission. Advanced countering WMD Airmen and Guardians consult with subject 
matter experts and share an understanding of how areas of competence influence each 
other. Advanced WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians who may lead or manage large, 
complex, multi-tiered organizations contribute to the development of nuclear 
capabilities by articulating the benefit of solutions. WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians 
achieve an advanced competency when completion of countering WMD education 
coursework is coupled with requisite training and experience. 
A4.1.2.1.4.  Expert. At this level, WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians apply their 
countering WMD education, expertise, and knowledge to strategic problem solving for 
countering WMD mission objectives. As recognized subject matter experts and thought 
leaders, expert WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians synthesize information to develop 
solutions to complex WMD challenges and promote critical thinking and diversity of 
thought. They may lead large, complex, multi-tiered organizations, direct rigorous 
countering WMD assessments, and lead improvement efforts. These WMD-ready 
Airmen and Guardians expertly articulate, arbitrate, and advocate for the countering 
WMD mission and may represent the DAF externally. WMD-ready Airman and 
Guardians achieve Expert competency when completion of countering WMD 
education coursework is coupled with requisite training and experience. 
A4.1.2.2.  These competencies are not all encompassing.  They are general enough to 
address a broad range of DAF countering WMD requirements implemented during major 
combat operations, countering WMD terrorism activities, and homeland defense/civil 
support efforts.  There may be more specific and specialized requirements within certain 
USAF and USSF career fields that the appropriate career field manager develops. 
A4.1.2.3.  Countering WMD capability is realized through a life-cycle approach using 
Force Development principles to create an integrated whole-base capability. It is not 
developed as the result of a single lesson, schoolhouse, or exercise event, but rather the 
culmination of growing WMD-ready Airmen and Guardians capable of conducting 
countering WMD operations against a WMD-armed adversary. To facilitate and achieve 
this operational objective, five targeted audiences are defined to manage and 
institutionalize the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities that ultimately enable and 
sustain an integrated operational capability. 
A4.1.2.3.1.  Senior Leadership. Those with command authority and responsibility for 
directing countering WMD operations. The O-6 plus category shown within the 
proficiency levels in paragraph A4.1.2.1 is recommended to produce USAF and USSF 
leaders who understand the full range of countering WMD operations and apply 
effective operational and risk management decisions. 
 
 
46 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
A4.1.2.3.2.  Functional Specific. Those classified within certain USAF and USSF 
Specialty Codes with sufficient knowledge of and competence in their countering 
WMD tasks in functionally-driven tactics, techniques, and procedures. In essence, this 
enables those who perform functional skills that ensure critical operations (e.g., sortie 
generation, cargo throughput, etc.) to conduct countering WMD operations. The 
proficiency levels, in paragraph A4.1.2, closely correlate to DAF skill-levels. 
A4.1.2.3.3.  Individual. The basic building block upon which all countering WMD 
capability is realized. This is where the preponderance of Airmen and Guardians, 
regardless of rank or Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) affiliation, possesses sufficient 
knowledge of and competence in their ability to conduct countering WMD operations. 
To be WMD-ready and ensure this ability to not only survive, but to operate, our 
Airmen and Guardians need the broadest foundational (or universal) level of 
understanding and ability. 
A4.1.2.3.4.  Specialized Expertise. Those within certain communities who provide the 
underpinning science, equipment acquisition and procurement, or innovative solutions 
to defeat an adversary’s WMD capabilities. 
A4.1.2.3.5.  Civilians and Contractors. Should have a well-established understanding 
of countering WMD operations consistent with their duties and responsibilities. The 
DAF organization identifies competencies appropriate for its contractor employee(s), 
and ensures it is included in the contract’s Statement of Work. 
A4.2.  Countering WMD Competencies. 
A4.2.1.  Educators, trainers, and exercise developers should develop countering WMD 
curricula, training materials, and exercise events using the appropriate competencies listed in 
Table A4.1 If using these competencies, Career Field Managers should ensure that curriculum 
developers and lesson planners for all AFSC-awarding courses use the specific competency 
recommendations applicable to their students and monitor incorporation into the appropriate 
course materials. All competencies contribute to the DAF’s ability to conduct countering 
WMD operations. 
A4.2.2.  Methodology. The DAF Countering WMD Council follows a three-step methodology 
to institutionalize a DAF Countering WMD operational capability: competency development; 
baseline evaluation; and gap identification and assessment. 
A4.2.2.1.  Competency Development. A measurable cluster of knowledge, skills, and 
abilities, or other attributes that an individual should possess to successfully perform 
consistent with a given task, condition, and standard. 
A4.2.2.2.  Baseline Evaluation. Education and training stakeholders determined the current 
level of countering WMD education, training, and exercises within their domain. 
A4.2.2.3.  Gap Identification and Assessment. Education and training stakeholders should 
compare their existing baselines against Table A4.1 Countering WMD Competencies to 
identify shortfalls within their domain. This gap assessment should determine potential 
corrective actions and identified resources required to eliminate the shortfalls. 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
47 
A4.2.3.  Competency Application. The recommended competencies herein represent the 
knowledge, skills, and abilities that apply to Senior Leaders and Individuals (Airmen and 
Guardians), regardless of functional specialty. Some apply to Airmen and Guardians at all 
grade levels, some apply to a broad range of grade levels, and others apply to a narrow range 
of grade levels. In addition, select competencies apply to emergency-essential and non-
emergency-essential civilians and contractors, and dependents. Educators, trainers, and 
exercise planners may integrate the competencies most appropriate for their operational or 
functional needs. 
A4.2.3.1.  Though some competencies appear to be functionally specific in nature, the 
intent was to identify universal knowledge, skills and abilities and create countering WMD 
education, training, and exercise competencies that apply broadly across the DAF. 
A4.2.3.2.  Career Field Managers can determine the competencies that apply to their 
specific career field, and incorporate them into their existing Career Field Education and 
Training Plan as foundational knowledge, skills and abilities. 
A4.2.3.3.  Competencies should be used to develop AFSC-awarding courses, as 
appropriate. New countering WMD or CBRN defense training that is non-AFSC-specific 
should be vetted and approved through the corporate review process detailed in AFI 36-
2670, Total Force Development. 
A4.2.4.  The countering WMD competencies, contained in Table A4.1, support DAF 
Foundational Competencies developed by AETC. 
 
 
48 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
Table A4.1.  Countering WMD Cross-Functional Competencies. 
Competency #1:  Develop and Maintain Technical Expertise 
 
 
Description 
Competency Level 
 Basic 
Develop, maintain, and expand technical 
expertise for countering WMD-related 
planning, research and development, 
programming, exercising, system integration, 
analysis, reach-back, and mission execution 
 Understand the distinction between 
various forms of WMD and their effects 
 Evaluate adversary intentions for WMD 
use during crises and contingency 
operations 
 Develop the necessary expertise for 
counter-WMD planning, research and 
development, exercising, and mission 
execution 
 Describe CBRN hazards, potential 
delivery methods, and their characteristics 
and effects 
 Define different levels of CBRN 
protection (individual and base ops) 
Intermediate 
 Identify force protection measures to 
defeat adversary use of WMD against air 
bases  
 Collect lessons learned and provide AARs 
during all phases of a CBRN incident 
Advanced 
 Explain DoD counter-WMD strategy, 
policy, and plans 
 Outline planning considerations for WMD 
interdiction operations across multiple 
domains  
 Evaluate adversary denial and deception 
efforts to mask WMD activities 
 Recognize trends and patterns to identify 
indications of WMD mobilization  
 Determine adversarial WMD capabilities 
to include intentions, vulnerabilities, and 
means of delivery 
Expert 
 Formulate concepts for detecting WMD 
proliferation and movement of WMD 
material and technology 
 Assess the effects of adversarial WMD 
employment against US and coalition air 
operations 
 
 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
49 
 
Competency #2:  Counter-WMD Collaboration 
 
 
Description 
Competency Level 
Basic 
Cooperate with and support domestic and 
foreign security partners on countering WMD 
operations 
 Develop relationships with partners to 
promote common threat awareness, 
countering WMD self-sufficiency, and 
military interoperability 
 Develop methods with partners to enhance 
timely indicators and warnings, tracking 
materials of concern, responding to and 
defeating WMD threats, and managing the 
consequences of attacks 
 Coordinate with non-governmental 
organizations to enhance capabilities and 
capacities 
 State the DAF contributions to joint 
countering WMD operations 
 Define the role of DoD in support of USG 
homeland defense/civil support operations 
Intermediate 
 Explain the importance of establishing 
interagency agreements to share 
intelligence on CBRN threats and hazards 
 Discuss the importance of arms control 
and nonproliferation agreements 
Advanced 
 Demonstrate knowledge of joint, 
combined, coalition, and interagency 
counter-WMD capabilities 
 Describe the roles and responsibilities of 
federal, state, local, tribal, and partner-
nation agencies in relation to counter-
WMD operations 
 Describe the potential national and 
international implications stemming from 
counter-WMD operations 
 Develop and conduct realistic counter-
WMD exercises with joint, combined, 
coalition and interagency partners 
 Design DAF counter-WMD requirements 
and concepts that are complementary to 
other Services’ efforts 
Expert 
 Develop and implement counter-WMD 
support agreements with other U.S. 
agencies, allies, and coalition partners 
 Appraise DAF participation in DoD and 
interagency counter-WMD exercises 
 
 
 
50 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
 
Competency #3:  Counter-WMD Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
 
 
Description 
Competency Level  
Basic 
Establish situational awareness of adversary 
capabilities to employ WMD, assess U.S. and 
partner counter-WMD capabilities, and 
evaluate the full range of counter-WMD 
efforts 
 Create and maintain situational awareness 
of global materials and stockpiles and the 
intentions and capabilities of actors of 
concern 
 Develop means to locate, identify, 
characterize, assess, and predict threats 
against U.S. and partner vulnerabilities 
 Predict and assess the possible future 
impact of WMD on friendly forces and 
plans of action 
 Support attribution efforts to determine 
the origin of material or a weapon as well 
as those responsible for a CBRN event 
 Define the range of space, air, and surface 
WMD threats to air bases 
(CONUS/OCONUS) 
 Predict the CBRN hazard to friendly 
forces near permanent and dispersed bases 
Intermediate 
 Understand adversary tactics, techniques, 
and procedures for WMD use 
 Use multiple information sources and 
methods, to include reachback, to improve 
WMD tracking 
 Explain the impact of WMD effects on 
USAF and USSF capabilities and 
operations 
Advanced 
 Implement available US ISR collection 
assets to detect, identify, and pass on 
WMD threat information 
 Interpret all-source data to detect WMD 
proliferation and the potential for the 
transfer of WMD material and technology 
 Develop potential enemy COAs in their 
developing/employing WMD  
 Predict adversary WMD mobilization, 
efforts to mask WMD activities, and 
potential COAs for employing WMD 
 Assess an adversary’s WMD capabilities 
to include intentions and means of 
delivery 
Expert 
 Develop space, air, and surface assets to 
detect and pass on WMD threat 
information 
 Develop multiple information sources and 
methods to obtain a high level of fidelity 
and granularity 
 Develop and review statements of 
intelligence interest as they relate to 
WMD 
 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
51 
Competency #4:  Pathway and WMD Defeat 
 
 
Description 
Competency Level  
Basic 
Apply U.S. and partner capabilities against 
adversary WMD-related infrastructure and 
delivery systems to control, defeat, disable, 
and dispose of WMD threats 
 Isolate, intercept, divert, seize, and secure 
WMD and related capabilities 
 Delay, disrupt, destroy, or otherwise 
complicate specific nodes, links, and 
supporting networks prior to WMD 
acquisition 
 Target efforts to assemble, stockpile, 
deliver, transfer, or employ WMD after 
WMD acquisition 
 
 Use the levels of command and control to 
report WMD threats across the force 
 Explain the possible CBRN effects 
resulting from a WMD defeat mission 
Intermediate 
 Identify examples of WMD targets across 
the proliferation continuum, from material 
sources through to delivery systems  
 Describe WMD Pathway and WMD 
defeat capabilities to include their 
availability and employment 
 Execute movement tracking of WMD 
targets to maximize strike opportunities 
Advanced 
 Apply a targeting process to WMD targets 
while minimizing collateral damage 
 Interpret potential environmental variables 
as they relate to WMD target engagement 
 Explain the consequences of hitting WMD 
targets, incl. desired and collateral effects 
 Interpret battle damage assessments to 
confirm completion of operational 
objectives 
 Analyze the unique elements of WMD 
targets (e.g., aim points, precision 
engagement, restrictions to engagement) 
 Evaluate the full range of attack options 
and the optimal combination of weapons 
and platforms to produce effect-based kills 
Expert 
 Develop an operational framework of 
sensors, shooters, battle management, and 
related infrastructure to enable air strikes 
 Support the development of no-strike lists, 
restricted strike lists, and restrictions on 
weapons 
 
 
 
52 
DAFI10-2602  30 JUNE 2022 
 
Competency #5:  Counter-WMD Operations and Forces 
 
 
Description 
Competency Level  
Basic 
Implement operational concepts and TTPs to 
mitigate WMD-related hazards and effects of 
use in order to safeguard the force and 
manage consequences on military operations 
 Prepare forces to mitigate the effects of 
WMD attacks through the use of 
specialized equipment and training 
 Respond to requests for support by U.S. 
and foreign civil authorities as authorized 
 Support activities to exploit and degrade 
or destroy critical and at-risk components 
of a WMD program following military 
operations 
 Support the deliberate technical process to 
reduce or dismantle production methods, 
materials, stockpiles, and technical 
infrastructure 
 Recognize indicators of adversary WMD 
use 
 Demonstrate the ability to employ basic 
individual CBRN protective measures 
 Understand the implications as well as 
limitations of CBRN detection results 
Intermediate 
 Use DAF, Joint, and coalition CBRN 
warning and reporting procedures 
 Interpret weather effects on CBRN 
hazards that may impact military 
operations  
 Anticipate the implications of asset 
contamination in the course of WMD 
attacks 
Advanced 
 Demonstrate the ability to plan, command, 
control, and execute counter-WMD 
operations during military contingencies 
 Organize DAF assets to support civil 
authorities requesting CBRN defense 
expertise as needed 
 Identify and use reachback operations to 
support counter-WMD operations both 
within or without the United States 
 Appraise the restrictions and legal 
limitations of using Title 10/Title 32 
forces in specialized counter-WMD 
operations 
 Organize joint/coalition forces to perform 
WMD facility/site survey operations and 
disablement/disposal operations 
Expert 
 Engage the process of allocating air and 
space assets needed to detect and interdict 
WMD threats during military operations 
 Develop special operations forces and 
specialized DAF units to execute counter-
WMD operations 
 
