BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 10-2701 
17 JUNE 2021 
Operations 
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTION  
OF THE CIVIL AIR PATROL 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OA 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI10-2701, 7 August 2018 
Certified by: AF/DA3O,  
(Mr. Trent O. Dudley) 
Pages: 14 
 
 
This Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive 
(AFPD) 10-27, Civil Air Patrol.  This instruction details the procedures, standards, and 
responsibilities of Department of the Air Force (DAF) organizations that support and utilize the 
Civil Air Patrol (CAP).  It applies to all uniformed members of the Regular Air Force (RegAF), 
the United States Space Force (USSF), the Air Force Reserve (AFR), the Air National Guard 
(ANG), and CAP.  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records 
Management and Information Governance Program, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force 
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).  CAP 
records are maintained in accordance with the Department of Defense (DoD) Grant and Agreement 
Regulations.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of 
Primary Responsibility using the Air Force (AF) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of 
command for approval by Director of Current Operations (AF/A3O).  The authorities to waive 
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) 
number following the compliance statement.  See DAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms 
Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.  Submit 
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval 
authority, or alternately, to the requestor’s commander for non-tiered compliance items. 
2 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been revised and needs to be reviewed in its entirety.  Changes include 
clarification of Air Force-assigned mission (AFAM) approval authorities outside of the United 
States and its territories. 
 
Chapter 1—GENERAL OVERVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
3 
1.1. 
Overview. .................................................................................................................  
3 
1.2. 
Department of the Air Force Roles and Responsibilities. ........................................  
3 
1.3. 
Civil Air Patrol Responsibilities to the Department of the Air Force. .....................  
6 
Chapter 2—DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE USE OF CIVIL AIR PATROL 
 
7 
2.1. 
Civil Air Patrol as the Auxiliary of the Department of the Air Force. .....................  
7 
2.2. 
Air Force-Assigned Missions. .................................................................................  
7 
Chapter 3—DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE SUPPORT TO CIVIL AIR PATROL  
11 
3.1. 
Support. ....................................................................................................................  
11 
3.2. 
Liaison Offices. ........................................................................................................  
11 
3.3. 
Logistic, Equipment, and Support. ..........................................................................  
11 
3.4. 
Financial Support, Programming and Budgeting. ....................................................  
11 
3.5. 
Installation or Garrison Support. ..............................................................................  
12 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
13 
 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
3 
Chapter 1 
GENERAL OVERVIEW AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
1.1.  Overview.  CAP is a federally supported, congressionally chartered non-profit corporation 
that is utilized as the civilian volunteer auxiliary of the DAF.  When in the status of a volunteer 
civilian auxiliary of the DAF, CAP shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the United States 
with respect to any act or omission of the CAP.  This status includes any act of any member of the 
CAP, in carrying out a mission assigned by the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF).  CAP members 
are referred to as “Airmen” when performing missions or programs as the Air Force Auxiliary 
(AFAUX) – a part of the Total Force alongside the RegAF, ANG, and AFR.  DAF leaders consider 
ways to fully utilize CAP, as the AFAUX, to fulfill the non-combat programs and missions of the 
DAF.  Such services include AFAMs, programs, or other activities. 
1.1.1.  The DAF establishes policy and guidance for CAP; provides advice, advocacy, 
assistance, and liaison to CAP; and monitors and oversees CAP and its activities.  The DAF 
uses CAP, as its auxiliary, in lieu of or in addition to DAF resources.  By using CAP to perform 
DAF programs and missions, DAF units, personnel, and resources are made available for other 
DAF priorities.  Because of the types of aircraft and equipment it employs and the voluntary 
nature of its members, CAP performs missions at a lower cost than comparable DAF units or 
commercial contractors.  This system presents a more cost-effective way for the DAF to carry 
out its non-combat programs and missions. 
1.1.2.  CAP is not a military service.  Its members are not subject to the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice.  CAP membership does not confer upon an individual the rights, privileges, 
prerogatives or benefits of military personnel.  CAP does use a United States Air Force 
(USAF)-style grade structure, and its members wear USAF-style uniforms when authorized.  
However, DAF protocol, customs and courtesies do not apply to CAP members.  CAP officer 
or non-commissioned officer grade does not confer military commissioned or non-
commissioned officer status.  CAP members have no authority over members of the armed 
forces.  
1.2.  Department of the Air Force Roles and Responsibilities. 
1.2.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) 
serves as the primary Secretariat of the Air Force office for DAF matters pertaining to policy 
affecting CAP as the AFAUX.  Responsibility for this role is delegated to the Deputy Assistant 
Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs (SAF/MRR).  SAF/MRR may represent DAF 
interests at Board of Governors meetings in accordance with AFI 10-2702, Board of Governors 
of the Civil Air Patrol. 
1.2.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) serves as the primary DAF 
headquarters office for CAP operational and fiscal matters.  AF/A3 is also the DAF Program 
Element Monitor for the CAP program.  These authorities are delegated to the Air Force 
Auxiliary Integration and Requirements Branch (AF/A3OA).  AF/A3OA, as the Program 
Element Monitor, annually submits the CAP program to the Program Objective Memorandum.  
AF/A3OA also advises the AF Corporate Structure through the assigned Mission Panel on 
funding requirements and history of CAP. 
4 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
1.2.3.  The First Air Force (Air Forces Northern) Commander approves operational AFAMs 
within United States Northern Command’s assigned area of responsibility.  The First Air Force 
(Air Forces Northern) Commander may approve AFAMs outside of the United States or its 
territories, limited to the United States Northern Command’s assigned area of responsibility.  
See Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for specific requirements prior to approval. 
1.2.3.1.  Civil Air Patrol-United States Air Force (CAP-USAF) is the USAF program 
office for the Cooperative Agreement and performs the following responsibilities: 
1.2.3.1.1.  Provides advice, advocacy, assistance, and liaison to CAP; 
1.2.3.1.2.  Monitors, supports, and oversees CAP performance according to the 
Cooperative Agreement; 
1.2.3.1.3.  Establishes programmatic requirements for CAP; 
1.2.3.1.4.  Serves as the primary functional interface between other federal agencies 
and CAP; 
1.2.3.1.5.  Reviews CAP’s annual budget, program submission, and makes 
recommendations through First Air Force (Air Forces Northern), Air Combat 
Command (ACC), and AF/A3OA for funds to support CAP activities; 
1.2.3.1.6.  Employs RegAF personnel, DAF civilians, contractors, and Category B and 
Category E USAF Reservists on Military Personnel Appropriation, Reserve Personnel 
Appropriation, or points-only statuses to accomplish liaison duties; and 
1.2.3.1.7.  Administers the CAP Reserve Assistance Program.  CAP Reserve 
Assistance Program members assist CAP unit commanders with administration and 
leadership, teach aerospace subjects to cadets, and serve as staff officers and advisors 
at cadet summer encampments, flight clinics, and leadership workshops. 
1.2.3.2.  The CAP-USAF Commander performs the following: 
1.2.3.2.1.  Approves CAP’s regulations, policies, plans, and programs affecting federal 
interests; 
1.2.3.2.2.  Suspends CAP operations for safety, compliance, or funding shortfalls; 
1.2.3.2.3.  Reports any CAP mishap, incident, or adverse events in accordance with 
AFMAN 10-206, Air Combat Command Supplement 1, Operational Reporting; 
1.2.3.2.4.  Approves CAP grade structure, wear and grooming standards for USAF-
style uniforms and variations thereof, and membership cards, ensuring distinction from 
DAF uniforms and identification cards; 
1.2.3.2.5.  Approves expenditures for CAP emergency services, aerospace education 
programs, cadet programs, chaplain programs, and volunteer member recruitment; 
1.2.3.2.6.  Approves types and amounts of excess personal property material screened 
by CAP from the Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services; 
 
 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
5 
1.2.3.2.7.  Approves the types of DAF missions that are assignable to CAP (e.g., 
homeland security, disaster relief, search and rescue, support to law enforcement, 
training support, and testing).  See Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for specific 
requirements prior to approval; 
1.2.3.2.8.  Approves non-operational AFAMs and programs (e.g., CAP chaplain 
assistance, disaster mental health, public affairs support, ferry flights, orientation, 
maintenance, and training); 
1.2.3.2.9.  Arranges for CAP to use facilities and services of DoD and other 
government agencies; 
1.2.3.2.10.  Validates and approves requirements for CAP member security clearances 
for AFAMs and programs, prior to submitting any members for investigation; and, 
1.2.3.2.11.  Validates and approves requirements for select CAP members to receive 
Common Access Cards for AFAMs, programs, and military installation or garrison 
access. 
1.2.3.3.  To oversee the Cooperative Agreement, the CAP-USAF Commander, as the DAF 
Program Manager for CAP, performs the following: 
1.2.3.3.1.  Sets program objectives and monitors, defines, evaluates, and corrects 
CAP’s activities, in accordance with the Cooperative Agreement; 
1.2.3.3.2.  Ensures AFAMs are approved at the appropriate level; 
1.2.3.3.3.  Approves annual extensions of Memoranda of Understanding/Agreement 
previously approved by AF/A3; 
1.2.3.3.4.  Reviews and coordinates on all CAP policies, regulations, and instructions 
ensuring compliance with CAP’s responsibilities to the DAF under the Cooperative 
Agreement; 
1.2.3.3.5.  Approves major or significant modifications to CAP equipment procured 
with federal funds; and 
1.2.3.3.6.  Regulates the use of CAP aircraft by CAP-USAF personnel. 
1.2.4.  Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) is responsible for AFAUX operational missions within its 
assigned area of responsibility.  The PACAF Commander approves AFAMs within the United 
States Indo-Pacific Command’s assigned Defense Support of Civil Authorities area of 
responsibility.  The PACAF Commander may also approve AFAMs outside of the United 
States or its territories, limited to the United States Indo-Pacific Command’s assigned area of 
responsibility.  These authorities may be further delegated within the PACAF Headquarters 
Staff or to a Numbered Air Force (Air Force Component) Commander.  See Paragraph 2.2 
and subparagraphs for specific requirements prior to approval. 
1.2.4.1.  Eleventh Air Force is responsible for AFAUX operational missions within the 
Alaska Command’s and Alaska, North American Aerospace Defense Command Region’s 
areas of responsibility.  See Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for specific requirements 
prior to approval. 
6 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
1.2.4.2.  The Eleventh Air Force Commander approves AFAMs within Alaska.  See 
Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for specific requirements prior to approval. 
1.2.5.  The Air Force Rescue Coordination Center approves search and rescue AFAMs within 
the continental United States, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands.  See 
Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for specific requirements prior to approval. 
1.2.6.  The Alaska Rescue Coordination Center approves search and rescue AFAMs within 
Alaska.  See Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for specific requirements prior to approval. 
1.2.7.  The Personnel Recovery Coordination Center within the 613th Air Operations Center 
approves search and rescue AFAMs within Hawaii and its surrounding waters, in coordination 
with the United States Coast Guard District 14 (the coordinating agency for search and rescue 
activities in Hawaii and its surrounding waters).  See Paragraph 2.2 and subparagraphs for 
specific requirements prior to approval. 
1.2.8.  Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), through the Air Reserve Personnel Center, 
provides administrative support for Air Reserve Component members assigned or attached to 
CAP-USAF.  Air Force Reserve Command provides Reserve Personnel Appropriation days to 
ensure reservists are trained to perform the CAP-USAF mission.  AFRC Headquarters 
Individual Reservist Readiness and Integration Organization ensures reservists are ready for 
duty to support CAP-USAF. 
1.2.9.  USAF and USSF installation or garrison commanders provide support to CAP or use 
CAP to accomplish DAF non-combat missions and programs.  Installation or garrison 
commanders resolve issues of installation or garrison access by CAP members with CAP-
USAF and notify CAP-USAF Commander when removal or debarment action is taken against 
a CAP member or unit.  Overseas installation or garrison commanders approve CAP cadets 
wearing CAP uniforms off the installation or garrison to participate in ceremonies or like 
events.  Installation or garrison personnel coordinate regulations, policies, plans, programs, 
and memoranda that affect CAP with CAP-USAF.  Installation or garrison personnel will 
provide administrative support to CAP.  (T-3). 
1.3.  Civil Air Patrol Responsibilities to the Department of the Air Force.  CAP uses federally 
provided resources and maintains the capability to fulfill its five congressional purposes as 
described in Title 36 United States Code (USC) Section 40302, Purposes.  CAP develops its 
regulations, policies, plans, and programs to govern safety, training, qualification, conduct, and 
performance of CAP members in the accomplishment of AFAMs, as well as other activities, and 
upholds obligations required by the Cooperative Agreement.  When approved and assigned by the 
SecAF, or designee, CAP is able to conduct missions and activities as the AFAUX to support 
federal departments and agencies (or non-federal government entities when sufficient federal 
interest exists). 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
7 
Chapter 2 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE USE OF CIVIL AIR PATROL 
2.1.  Civil Air Patrol as the Auxiliary of the Department of the Air Force.  10 USC § 9492, 
Status as volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air Force, identifies CAP as the Auxiliary of the DAF 
when its services are used by any department or agency in any branch of the federal government.  
The SecAF, or designee, places participating CAP members and assets in auxiliary status for the 
respective activity.  All missions and programs CAP conducts in auxiliary status, once authorized 
and assigned to CAP by the SecAF, or designee, are deemed to be AFAMs.  CAP conducts 
activities in corporate status when not assigned auxiliary status. 
2.1.1.  All operational AFAMs are executed under military command and control, at the 
operational level, and in some instances, the DAF exercises general tactical direction of CAP 
assets and personnel during the performance of AFAMs. 
2.1.2.  AFAMs do not involve actual combat or combat operations.  CAP provides limited 
combat training support (e.g., radar calibration, simulated aerial targets, simulated personnel 
recovery targets, surrogate remotely piloted aircraft, small-unmanned aerial systems and 
counter-small-unmanned aerial systems type missions).  CAP cadets are permitted to 
participate in DAF career orientation training programs, to include combat oriented training 
programs. 
2.2.  Air Force-Assigned Missions.  AFAMs are accomplished by CAP, as the AFAUX, on 
behalf of the DAF, when approved by an appropriate DAF authority.  Prior to approval, AFAM 
approval authorities will ensure the proposed mission does not involve combat activities or expose 
CAP resources to immitigable hazards analogous to combat activities.  (T-0).  AFAM approval 
authorities with authority to approve missions outside of the United States or its territories, in 
accordance with delegations specified within this instruction, will approve missions only after a 
written request for assistance is received from an appropriate Federal or National government 
office and notification is provided to AF/A3OA and the Geographic Combatant Command.  (T-
0).  This limitation is not applicable to AFAMs requiring ferry flights or operations over 
international waters provided the initial point of departure and final point of intended landing 
(including alternate and emergency recovery airfields) are within the United States or its territories.  
A request is not given an AFAM status until the activity has been approved by the appropriate 
AFAM approval authority and funding has been made available to cover the estimated cost of 
performance. 
2.2.1.  Criteria for an AFAM includes: 
2.2.1.1.  A CAP activity performed pursuant to request from a federal department or 
agency; or, 
2.2.1.2.  Pursuant to a request from a State, territorial, tribal or local government, or non-
government organization that the DAF has determined to contain a demonstrable federal 
interest; or, 
2.2.1.3.  Otherwise designated by the appropriate DAF approval authority as an AFAM. 
 
 
8 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
2.2.2.  Requests for support from CAP are made to the CAP National Operations Center, and 
the CAP National Operations Center advises on CAP capabilities to support the request.  
Requests generally include the purpose and scope of CAP activity, resources and personnel 
requested, date and time of mission start and expected length, and point of contact for CAP 
mission coordination.  Requests generally conform to requirements for payment of CAP 
services.  The CAP National Operations Center requests AFAM status from the appropriate 
approval authority.  AFAMs are subject to the following stipulations: 
2.2.2.1.  Limitations.  Flight operations during AFAMs performed by CAP are subject to 
Federal Aviation Administration regulations and directives.  AFAMs performed by CAP 
in support of other federal agencies will not involve the targeting or surveillance of persons, 
groups of persons, buildings, or vehicles, unless specifically permitted by AFAM approval 
authority.  (T-0).  CAP is not an intelligence gathering organization, has no assigned 
intelligence mission, and does not engage in intelligence activities.  CAP members will not 
be assigned activities prohibited by 18 USC § 1385, Use of Army and Air Force as posse 
comitatus.  (T-0). 
2.2.2.2.  Control and prioritization of use.  AFAMs may be suspended for safety by the 
CAP or any agency exercising operational or tactical control.  AFAMs performed by CAP 
in support of other federal agencies are prioritized below DoD missions, except in life-
saving situations. 
2.2.2.3.  Payment for CAP services.  Federal support is ordinarily funded prior to CAP 
performing the service; however, by exception, CAP may commence performance on a 
cost-reimbursable basis funded by the supported agency.  DoD organizations providing 
funding, including the United States Space Force, send a DD Form 448, Military 
Interdepartmental Purchase Request, (or equivalent federal agency form) to CAP-USAF 
Financial Management (CAP-USAF/FM) for an amount equal to the estimated cost prior 
to the time of mission execution.  Other federal agencies typically send the appropriate 
funding authorization to CAP-USAF/FM prior to mission execution indicating the agency 
has set aside an amount equal to the cost estimate.  CAP-USAF/FM then obligates these 
funds and adds them to the CAP Cooperative Agreement.  CAP-USAF/FM de-obligates 
unexecuted funds to the requesting organization. 
2.2.2.4.  31 USC § 1535, Agency Agreements, (“the Economy Act”) determination and 
findings.  Prior to CAP providing support, federal departments or agencies that are subject 
to the provisions of the Economy Act will provide documentation that Economy Act 
requirements have been met.  (T-0).  Documentation should include Determination and 
Findings, using the DD Form 448 (or equivalent federal agency form) or separate document 
accompanying request for support. 
2.2.2.5.  Liability. 
 
 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
9 
2.2.2.5.1.  Tort Claims.  CAP is deemed to be an instrumentality of the United States 
with respect to any act or omission of the CAP, including any member of the CAP, in 
carrying out a mission assigned by the SecAF, or designee.  Such coverage includes 
any CAP members acting within the scope of volunteer duties in support of an AFAM, 
to include traveling, planning, scheduling, operating, and maintaining aircraft, vehicles 
and equipment required for the AFAM.  All 28 USC § 1346(b), United States as 
defendant, and Chapter 171, Tort Claims Procedure, (known as the Federal Tort 
Claims Act (FTCA) claims arising out of AFAMs performed by CAP will be processed 
in accordance with AFI 51-306, Administrative Claims For and Against the Air Force.  
(T-0). 
2.2.2.5.2.  Employee Compensation.  When performing AFAMs, volunteer CAP 
members 18 years of age or older are covered by 5 USC § 8101 et seq, the Federal 
Employee’s Compensation Act, for illness, injury or death sustained while participating 
in an AFAM, or traveling to and from that mission, under written authorization by 
competent authority covering a specific assignment and prescribing a time limit for the 
assignment.  Any Federal Employees’ Compensation Act actions involving DAF 
and/or CAP members arising out of AFAMs will be processed by the Department of 
Labor in coordination with the DAF.  (T-0).  Federal Employee Compensation Act 
actions involving supported personnel from federal agencies arising out of AFAMs are 
processed by the supported agency. 
2.2.2.5.3.  Foreign Liability.  Separate liability provisions will be negotiated and agreed 
to in writing by foreign government officials, AFAM approval authorities, and 
supported agencies, with notification provided to AF/A3OA prior to any agreement 
and execution of AFAMs outside of the United States or its territories.  (T-0).  No 
AFAM approval authority may approve participation of CAP volunteers under 18 years 
of age for AFAMs outside of the United States or its territories.  (T-0). 
2.2.2.6.  Disputes.  Any disputes arising from AFAMs performed by CAP in support of 
federal departments or qualified agencies will be resolved in accordance with the 
Cooperative Agreement, Executive Order, or grant regulation.  (T-0). 
2.2.2.7.  Termination.  Termination of support can also occur at any time upon mutual 
written consent of CAP, the DAF, and the supported agency.  CAP’s consent is not required 
so long as CAP is fully compensated for all of their incurred expenses. 
2.2.2.8.  Transferability.  Responsibility for approved mission requests for support and 
funding from one federal department or agency is not transferrable to another department 
or agency unless written consent is obtained from both federal entities. 
2.2.2.9.  Use of Member-Owned or Furnished Aircraft.  Member-owned or furnished 
aircraft can be utilized for AFAMs with the consent of the owner when the circumstances 
or specific mission requirements preclude using CAP assets.  Use of member-owned or 
furnished aircraft requires a current Hold Harmless Agreement waiving liability, a 
statement from the owner in writing that the aircraft meets Title 14, Code of Federal 
Regulations (CFR), Part 23, Airworthiness Standards: Normal Category Airplanes, and 
approval by the CAP Director of Operations and the AFAM approval authority.  (T-0). 
10 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
2.2.2.10.  Media Support and Media Releases.  AFAM approval authorities will determine 
media support, media access, and media release; verify media credentials; and ensure 
written consent is received from organizations and/or individuals identifiable or cited in a 
media release prior to dissemination.  (T-1). 
2.2.2.11.  Non-CAP Passengers and Crew.  AFAM approval authorities authorize non-
CAP passengers to participate in existing AFAMs or AFAMs generated for the purpose of 
orientation or familiarization for the non-CAP passenger.  Air Force Rescue Coordination 
Center, Alaska Rescue Coordination Center, and the Personnel Recovery Coordination 
Center approve non-CAP passengers that are mission essential personnel for its AFAMs 
with concurrence from the CAP wing commander executing the mission.  AFAMs 
involving members of Congress or congressional staffers, who are not participating as CAP 
members, are coordinated with the offices of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force Legislative Liaison, Congressional Correspondence Division (SAF/LLC) and 
SAF/MRR, prior to mission approval. 
2.2.2.12.  Security Clearances.  Departments or agencies requesting CAP members to hold 
a security clearance or have access to classified information determine security 
requirements for CAP members.  These departments or agencies are responsible for the 
costs to obtain any new clearances associated with the request.  CAP members who have a 
valid and current security clearance from a military or government service are allowed to 
use such clearance when performing CAP activities that require a security clearance. 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
11 
Chapter 3 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE SUPPORT TO CIVIL AIR PATROL 
3.1.  Support.  In addition to federal funds specifically appropriated for CAP use, the DAF 
provides personnel, logistical, and financial support assistance to CAP, including installation or 
garrison-level support.  CAP-USAF coordinates with CAP to budget, purchase, distribute, and 
maintain assets necessary for CAP to fulfill its congressionally-mandated purposes.  These assets 
include (but are not limited to) aircraft, vehicles, computers, communications equipment, and cadet 
uniforms.  DAF support to CAP is not restricted by whether or not CAP is in an auxiliary or 
corporate status; however, the support must be necessary to enable the CAP to fulfill the missions 
assigned by the SecAF, or designee, to the CAP as an auxiliary of the DAF.  (T-0). 
3.1.1.  Support for Emergency Services.  CAP emergency services programs are supported by 
the DAF through funding, equipment, coordination, and integration management of (but are 
not limited to) disaster relief, search and rescue, other operations, and training. 
3.1.2.  Support for Aerospace Education.  The DAF provides funds to CAP for educational 
material concerning aerospace education and science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics subjects for distribution to CAP members, teachers and students in kindergarten 
through 12th grade classrooms and other youth development organizations.  The DAF also 
provides funds to CAP for kindergarten through 12th grade teacher conferences and 
workshops. 
3.1.3.  Support for Cadet Programs.  The DAF provides support to CAP for cadet programs. 
CAP’s overseas units only perform cadet programs related activities and do not accomplish 
operational missions, nor possess CAP vehicles or aircraft.  Membership in overseas units will 
be limited to individuals covered by the provisions of the Status of Forces Agreement.  (T-1). 
3.1.4.  Support for Chaplain Programs.  The DAF provides support to CAP chaplain programs, 
which is necessary to enable the CAP to fulfill AFAMs. 
3.2.  Liaison Offices.  The DAF establishes liaison offices to provide advocacy, assistance, 
monitoring, oversight, and support to CAP. 
3.3.  Logistic, Equipment, and Support.  The DAF provides logistic, equipment, and support to 
CAP in accordance with AFMAN 65-605V1, Budget Guidance and Technical Procedures.  The 
DAF provides funds for the procurement of, or gives, lends, or sells to CAP major end items of 
equipment (e.g., aircraft, vehicles, computers, and communications equipment).  CAP screens 
excess personal property material from the Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services.  The 
DAF furnishes articles of the USAF-style uniform to CAP cadets without expectation for 
reimbursement. 
3.4.  Financial Support, Programming and Budgeting.  The DAF provides CAP with funds via 
the Cooperative Agreement through CAP-USAF/FM.  The DAF plans for appropriated fund 
support to CAP within the planning, programming, budgeting, and execution system through the 
Program Objective Memorandum.  CAP provides a Budget Execution Report, Financial Plan, and 
other supporting information to the CAP-USAF Commander annually to facilitate this process.  
The DAF provides appropriated funds for the payment of liability insurance premiums to 
underwrite CAP corporate activities. 
12 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
3.5.  Installation or Garrison Support.  CAP members are eligible for access to DAF 
installations or garrisons.  The DAF coordinates use of other DoD facilities that are not DAF 
owned when required.  The DAF provides CAP installation or garrison support, including 
facilities, equipment, and services, without expectation of reimbursement, at the discretion of the 
Installation or garrison commander or higher authority.  Support includes (not limited to): 
3.5.1.  Use of real property, liaison and facilitation personnel, cadet encampments, training 
activities, flying activities, administration space, storage space, flight facilities and ramp space. 
3.5.2.  Use of morale, welfare, and recreation facilities, to include lodging, messing, non-
appropriated fund activities, clubs, and theaters, is limited to CAP members in a travel status, 
engaged in AFAMs and occupying Government quarters on a DoD installation or garrison 
when authorized by the installation or garrison commander. 
3.5.3.  Use of military exchange, limited to CAP members in a travel status and occupying 
Government quarters on a DoD installation or garrison, excluding the purchase of alcohol and 
tobacco products.  CAP members can purchase uniforms, when CAP membership card is 
shown, and can purchase all food and beverages sold at any exchange food activity, if 
consumed on the installation or garrison. 
3.5.4.  CAP fixed communications equipment are authorized to be placed on DAF facilities.  
CAP coordinates use of DAF-assigned communications frequencies with the Air Force 
Spectrum Management Office. 
3.5.5.  Services included with use of installation or garrison facilities are (not limited to) minor 
facility maintenance and housekeeping, ground transportation (with adequate operator support) 
and internet access. 
3.5.6.  CAP members are required to have installation or garrison commander approval to use 
DAF vehicles on a DAF installation or garrison and are required to adhere to installation or 
garrison policies. (T-3). 
 
JOSEPH T. GUASTELLA, JR., Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
13 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
5USC § 8101 et seq, Federal Employees’ Compensation Act (FECA) 
10USC § 9492, Status as volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air Force 
18USC § 1385, Use of Army and Air Force as posse comitatus 
28USC § 1346, United States as defendant 
28USC Chapter 171, Tort Claims Procedure 
3USC § 1535, Agency Agreements 
36USC § 40302, Purposes 
14CFR Part 23, Airworthiness Standards: Normal Category Airplanes 
AFI 10-2702, Board of Governors of the Civil Air Patrol, 2 January 2019 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFI 51-306, Administrative Claims For and Against the Air Force, 5 May 2021 
AFMAN 10-206, Air Combat Command Supplement 1, Operational Reporting (OPREP), 6 
March 2019 
AFMAN 65-605V1, Budget Guidance and Technical Procedures, 31 March 2021 
AFPD 10-27, Civil Air Patrol, 2 July 2018 
DAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 679, Air Force Publication Compliance Item Waiver Request/Approval 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AF—Air Force 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A3O—Air Force Current Operations Directorate 
AF/A3OA—Air Force Auxiliary Integration and Requirements Branch 
14 
DAFI10-2701  17 JUNE 2021 
AFAM—Air Force-assigned mission 
AFAUX—Air Force Auxiliary 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFR—Air Force Reserve 
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command 
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System 
ANG—Air National Guard 
CAP—Civil Air Patrol 
CAP– USAF—Civil Air Patrol-United States Air Force 
CAP– USAF/FM—Civil Air Patrol-United States Air Force Financial Management 
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force Instruction 
DoD—Department of Defense 
FECA—Federal Employees’ Compensation Act 
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces 
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule 
RegAF—Regular Air Force 
SAF/LLC—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Legislative Liaison, Congressional 
Correspondence Division 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SAF/MRR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs 
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USC—United States Code 
USSF—United States Space Force 
Terms 
Air Force-Assigned Mission—All missions and programs CAP conducts in auxiliary status, once 
authorized and assigned to CAP by the SecAF, or designee, are deemed to be AFAMs. 
Air Force-Assigned Mission Approval Authority—Entities within Chapter 1 of this AFI that 
have been delegated AFAM approval authority that assign an AF mission to Civil Air Patrol as the 
AFAUX. 
