BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 10-208 
12 MAY 2023 
Incorporating Change 1, 6 FEBRUARY 2024 
Operations 
CONTINUITY OF  
OPERATIONS (COOP) PROGRAM 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: SAF/AAC 
Certified by: SAF/AAC  
(Col Jonathan M. Townsend)
Supersedes: 
AFI10-208, 10 October 2018 
Pages: 45 
 
 
Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) 10-208 implements Department of the Air Force 
Policy Directive (DAFPD) 10-2, Readiness and is consistent with Readiness Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3411.01E, Key Personnel Location Reports to the National 
Military Command Center, Department of Defense Continuity Programs.  DAFI 10-208 provides 
guidance for ensuring the continuity of mission essential operations and functions of the 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) across a wide range of potential emergencies. This DAFI 
provides guidance applicable to the entire DAF, including all civilian employees and uniformed 
members of the Regular Air Force, the United States Space Force (USSF), the Air Force Reserve 
(AFR), the Air National Guard (ANG), the Civil Air Patrol when conducting missions as the 
official Air Force Auxiliary, and those with a contractual obligation to abide by the terms of DAF 
issuances. This DAFI also establishes guidance and procedures for reporting the location and 
availability of DAF key personnel and Major Command (MAJCOM) and Field Command 
(FLDCOM) commanders (hereafter referred to collectively and individually as “Principals”) and 
the designation of alternates. It does not change requirements established by the National Military 
Command System and must be used with AFPD 51-5, Administrative Law, Gifts, and Command 
Relationships and DAFI 51-509, Appointment to and Assumption of Command. This DAFI may 
be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be 
routed to USAF/Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) and/or USSF/Deputy Chief of 
Space Operations for Operations, Cyber, and Nuclear (SF/COO) for coordination prior to 
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the 
office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
2 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of 
command. The authorities to waive wing/delta/unit-level requirements in this publication are 
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,”) number following the compliance statement. See 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, for a description of the authorities 
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers via DAF Form 679, Department of 
the Air Force Publication Compliance Item Waiver Request/Approval through the chain of 
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR 
for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed 
in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information 
Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition 
Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
Compliance with attachments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in this publication is mandatory. The use of the 
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this 
publication does not imply endorsement by the Department of the Air Force. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been revised as an Interim Change (IC) and should be reviewed accordingly. 
Changes include: (1) Clarified roles and responsibilities between Headquarters of the Department 
of the Air Force (HAF) and DAF regarding “HAF Key Personnel Locator (KPL)” and “DAF Top 
8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC” KPL procedures, (2) Clarification of SAF/AA roles and 
responsibilities, (3) Added references to the document, specifically HAF COOP OPORD 3-18 (S) 
and HOI 10-3, Headquarters Air Force Continuity of Operations Program and (4) Other 
administrative changes. An asterisk (*) indicates newly revised material. 
 
 
Chapter 1—OVERVIEW OF CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS AND REPORTING OF 
KEY PERSONNEL 
 
4 
1.1. 
Overview. .................................................................................................................  
4 
1.2. 
Department of the Air Force Continuity. .................................................................  
4 
1.3. 
Continuity Guidance. ...............................................................................................  
5 
1.4. 
Continuity Preparedness Objective Requirements. ..................................................  
5 
1.5. 
Continuity Program Management. ...........................................................................  
6 
Figure 1.1. 
Continuity Program Management Cycle. ................................................................  
6 
1.6. 
DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC Key Personnel Locator. .......................  
6 
1.7. 
HAF Key Personnel Locator. ...................................................................................  
6 
Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
7 
2.1. 
HAF (Secretariat, Air Staff, and Office of the Chief of Space Operations (Space 
Staff)). ......................................................................................................................  
7 
2.2. 
Air Force District of Washington (AFDW). ............................................................  
11 
2.3. 
DAF COOP Program. ..............................................................................................  
11 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
3 
2.4. 
DAF COOP Planning. ..............................................................................................  
13 
2.5. 
MAJCOM and FLDCOM Staff Offices and Command Centers. ............................  
14 
Chapter 3—COOP PLAN DEVELOPMENT 
 
15 
3.1. 
Writing COOP Plans. ...............................................................................................  
15 
3.2. 
Classifying COOP Plans. .........................................................................................  
15 
3.3. 
Elements of a Continuity Plan. ................................................................................  
15 
3.4. 
Risk Management (RM). .........................................................................................  
20 
3.5. 
Planning Phases. ......................................................................................................  
20 
Chapter 4—DAF TOP 8 AND MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KEY PERSONNEL LOCATOR 
 
22 
4.1. 
DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL. ....................................................  
22 
4.2. 
DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL Accounts. ....................................  
22 
4.3. 
DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL Reporting Procedures. .................  
23 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
24 
Attachment 2—NATIONAL ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS (NEF), PRIMARY MISSION 
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS (PMEF) AND MISSION ESSENTIAL 
FUNCTIONS (MEF) 
 
33 
Attachment 3—DEVELOPING MISSION ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS 
 
35 
Attachment 4—DAF UNIT CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS (COOP) PLAN 
TEMPLATE 
 
37 
Attachment 5—KPL TASKED ORGANIZATIONS 
 
38 
Attachment 6—DAF TOP 8 AND MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL AND AVAILABILITY 
REPORTING 
 
41 
 
4 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
Chapter 1 
OVERVIEW OF CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS AND REPORTING OF KEY 
PERSONNEL 
1.1.  Overview.  This DAFI provides guidance for ensuring the continuity of mission essential 
operations and functions of the DAF across a wide range of potential emergencies and establishes 
guidance and procedures for reporting the location and availability of Headquarters of the 
Department of the Air Force key personnel, MAJCOM and FLDCOM Commanders. 
1.2.  Department of the Air Force Continuity. 
1.2.1.  It is Department of Defense (DoD) and DAF policy to maintain a comprehensive and 
effective continuity capability to preserve DAF functions, missions and capabilities in support 
of DoD Primary Mission Essential Functions (PMEFs) and DAF Mission Essential Functions 
(MEFs) (see Attachment 2) under all hazards and threat conditions. 
1.2.2.  All MAJCOM, FLDCOM, Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), ANG, Field Operating 
Agency (FOAs), Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), Centers and Wings/Deltas/Units will plan, 
budget and be prepared to do their Mission Essential Functions (MEFs) in a COOP situation. 
(T-0) 
1.2.3.  Continuity requirements must be incorporated into the daily and routine operations of 
organizations to ensure rapid response to a wide range of emergencies, including local or 
regional natural disasters, health-related emergencies, man-made disasters and accidents, 
technological or attack-related emergencies. 
1.2.4.  DAF military, civilian and contract personnel with continuity responsibilities must 
know what actions to take with or without warning or communications across a wide range of 
potential emergencies. (T-0) 
1.2.5.  Continuity is a primary enabler of operational capability. 
1.2.5.1.  Continuity is focused on organizations maintaining the capability to perform their 
mission essential functions during any emergency for up to 30 days until normal operations 
can be resumed. 
1.2.5.2.  Continuity is best achieved through synchronization with other mission assurance 
(MA) related programs and activities that enable operational capability to continue with 
limited or no impact to mission execution should an event or other disruption occur. 
Organizations and installations should align efforts with MA, as MA seeks to prioritize 
DoD efforts and resources toward addressing the most critical strategic mission execution 
concerns. A list of Mission Assurance Related Programs and Activities (MARPA) are 
addressed in DoDI 3020.45, Mission Assurance (MA) Construct and AFPD 10-24, Mission 
Assurance. 
1.2.5.3.  Continuity planning will consider all disruptions that will most likely degrade 
operations. 
1.2.5.4.  Risk management (RM) methodologies, focused on the continuation of mission 
capability, should be used to identify, and develop mitigation solutions, which may, in-
turn, be used to prioritize and justify the allocation of budgetary resources. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
5 
1.2.6.  Continuity requires unity of effort between the mission owner, information technology 
providers, and the installation leadership to establish priorities on an installation in support of 
essential functions, as appropriate. 
1.2.7.  Non-essential functions refer to functions that can be deferred for up to 30 days without 
mission impact. These functions, completed by non-emergency essential personnel, are 
conducted from dispersed locations, including telework locations. Non-essential functions 
must comply with military and civilian personnel policies. Examples include telework 
guidance established by Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) 
in DoDI 1035.01_DAFI 36-143, Telework Program, and computer system security 
requirements established by DAF, Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN). 
1.3.  Continuity Guidance. 
1.3.1.  COOP planning should remain operationally focused on command and control and 
prioritized through contingency and crisis planning. Organizations should fully integrate 
continuity into all aspects of their daily operations, thus creating a “culture of continuity.” 
1.3.2.  DAF units in Joint Basing situations, whether in the supporting or supported role, must 
continue to comply with DAF guidance to ensure their personnel are adequately protected and 
cared for during emergencies. Supported/supporting units will establish standards of support 
in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) established for that particular Joint 
Base. Units that cannot meet DAF requirements through the agreements must coordinate with 
their MAJCOM, FLDCOM or DRU to alleviate discrepancies. (T-1) MAJCOM and 
FLDCOMs that cannot resolve discrepancies will coordinate with the appropriate 
Headquarters Air Force (HAF) office to determine a solution. 
1.3.3.  DAF tenant units on sister-service or other agency installations must implement a MOA 
to establish standards of support. (T-1) Units that cannot meet DAF requirements through 
MOAs must coordinate with their MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAF to alleviate 
discrepancies. (T-1) MAJCOM and FLDCOMs that cannot resolve discrepancies will 
coordinate with the appropriate HAF office to determine a solution. 
1.4.  Continuity Preparedness Objective Requirements. 
1.4.1.  Ensure HAF and subordinate DAF units can continue essential functions under all 
conditions and during a wide range of emergencies with or without warning, during duty or 
non-duty hours. 
1.4.2.  Ensure availability of personnel, critical assets, essential facilities, communications, 
equipment, essential records and other assets necessary to continue MEFs in the event of a 
disruption. 
1.4.3.  Execute a successful order of succession and delegation of authority in the event a 
disruption renders leadership unavailable or incapable of executing their responsibilities and/or 
exercising their authorities. 
1.4.4.  Execute distributed operations (telework), relocation or reconstitution and return to 
normal operations upon termination of a continuity event to resume conducting non-essential 
functions. 
1.4.5.  Incorporate flexibility and responsiveness into planning in order to ensure ability to 
address emerging missions that may be critical to essential functions. 
6 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
1.5.  Continuity Program Management.  An organization’s continuity capability rests upon key 
components and pillars. These pillars are leadership, staff, facilities, and communications. These 
pillars form the basis of continuity planning and management. Organizations should use the 
continuity program management cycle to develop and implement their continuity programs. 
Figure 1.1 depicts the Continuity Program Management Cycle and pillars. The cycle establishes 
consistent performance metrics, promulgates best practices, and facilitates consistent cross- 
organization continuity evaluations. 
Figure 1.1.  Continuity Program Management Cycle. 
 
1.6.  DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC Key Personnel Locator.  The Air Force 
Operations 
Group 
(AFOG) 
manages 
the 
website 
https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/afa3/O/O/SitePages/KPL.aspx, 
and 
is 
also 
responsible for ensuring updates are made by the DAF Top 8 points of contact (POCs) daily no 
later than (NLT) 0800 Eastern Time. The MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC will utilize the same website, 
and are responsible for updating their key personnel no earlier than 0500Z and no later than 0700Z 
daily regardless if there has been changes or not. This update provides a current as of date stamp 
(see Attachment 5). 
1.7.  HAF Key Personnel Locator.  The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air 
Force (SAF/AA) is responsible for managing a separate HAF KPL website, and coordinating the 
location and availability of HAF Staff key personnel. This provides the Secretary of the Air Force 
(SecAF), the Chief of Staff, United States Air Force (CSAF), and the Chief of Space Operations 
(CSO) with a timely and accurate communication platform with HAF leadership. Timely and 
responsive accessibility to voice communications, within the limits stated in Attachment 6, 
paragraph A6.6, is the primary criteria for establishing adequate knowledge of leaderships’ 
locations. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
7 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  HAF (Secretariat, Air Staff, and Office of the Chief of Space Operations (Space Staff)). 
2.1.1.  The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) will: 
2.1.1.1.  Serve as the DAF Continuity Coordinator and, as such, act as the senior 
accountable official designated to manage, oversee and ensure readiness and compliance 
with the DoD continuity program guidance and responsibilities, and will: 
2.1.1.2.  Publish DAF-wide COOP guidance, including this DAFI, and ensure this DAFI 
is reviewed and updated as required. 
2.1.1.3.  Incorporate continuity planning and MEF execution in HAF continuity facility 
design and force protection requirements. 
2.1.1.4.  Establish guidance to maintain a comprehensive and effective continuity 
capability to support DoD and DAF essential functions, missions, capabilities and tasks in 
support of the DoD PMEFs. 
2.1.1.5.  Develop, coordinate and validate DAF COOP requirements. 
2.1.1.6.  Develop, maintain and validate DAF MEFs. 
2.1.1.7.  Submit an annual report to the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy certifying 
Component COOP Plans include the requirements delineated in DoDD 3020.26, DoD 
Continuity Policy. 
2.1.1.8.  Submit continuity readiness reports to the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, 
as required, to support DoD continuity readiness reporting requirements. 
2.1.1.9.  Provide guidance to all command levels on COOP planning and execution issues. 
2.1.1.10.  Plan, execute and evaluate national and joint exercises with HAF continuity 
related events with assistance from the AFOG, SF/COO, Air Force Crisis Action Team, 
and Space Force Crisis Action Team offices. 
2.1.1.11.  Consolidate, 
develop, 
submit 
and 
coordinate 
IT 
requirements 
and 
implementation with AFDW/844th CS, Joint Service Provider (JSP) and other IT service 
providers. 
2.1.1.12.  Provide guidance to HAF Staff Offices on conducting a MEF Review every two 
years and the identification of requirements to conduct HAF MEF. 
2.1.1.13.  Provides HAF guidance through the HAF COOP OPORD and HOI 10-3. 
2.1.1.14.  Provide a representative to the HAF COOP Deputies' Committee to coordinate 
COOP activities across the HAF. 
2.1.1.15.  Manage the HAF KPL website and update the location and availability of HAF 
Staff key personnel. 
2.1.2.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ) will: 
8 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
2.1.2.1.  Establish guidance and procedures for planning and administering contracted 
services, facilities and/or equipment supporting HAF continuity and reconstitution 
requirements. 
2.1.3.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
(SAF/FM) will provide funding to support HAF continuity and reconstitution operations on an 
emergency basis and will provide budgetary and funding guidance to MAJCOM and 
FLDCOM financial management offices. 
2.1.4.  The Inspector General of the Department of the Air Force (SAF/IG) will incorporate 
continuity of operations in the IG inspection program by including COOP inspection 
requirements provided by SAF/AA into DAFI 90-302, The Inspection System of the 
Department of the Air Force. 
2.1.5.  The Chief Information Officer for DAF (SAF/CN) will: 
2.1.5.1.  Establish interoperable and 
back-up communication requirements for 
headquarters, alternates and other continuity facilities in accordance with established DoD 
guidance. 
2.1.5.2.  Develop and maintain communications capabilities that can support DAF senior 
leadership while in transit to relocation sites. 
2.1.5.3.  Budget for and acquire enterprise continuity communication capabilities, in 
accordance with DoD guidance. 
2.1.5.4.  Support of identification and prioritization of information systems and networks 
the DAF is dependent upon to maintain continuity of operations (in concert with the 
Critical Asset Risk Management (CARM) program). This includes, but is not limited to, 
validating and testing requirements for data backups in cloud computing environments and 
ensuring data backups are completed for DAF information systems and accessing the data 
on backups is validated. 
2.1.5.5.  Synchronize COOP planning with information system contingency planning. 
2.1.5.6.  Advocate for resources to support COOP planning. 
2.1.5.7.  Provide guidance and oversight on Cyber Resilience initiatives. 
2.1.6.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will: 
2.1.6.1.  Establish personnel accountability standards consistent with continuity guidance. 
2.1.6.2.  Establish guidance and procedures for the reconstitution of essential staff. 
2.1.6.3.  Establish guidance and procedures for alternate work schedules and teleworking 
for personnel during continuity events. 
2.1.7.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) will: 
2.1.7.1.  Participate in assessments and exercises at all national, DoD and HAF levels to 
validate the completeness, readiness and effectiveness of Defense Intelligence Continuity 
planning. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
9 
2.1.7.2.  Identify, mitigate, eliminate or assume risk due to vulnerabilities or shortfalls in 
continuity planning or capabilities, especially those that may impact HAF and across the 
Defense Intelligence Enterprise. 
2.1.7.3.  Plan and document continuity support to other components of the Defense 
Intelligence Enterprise. 
2.1.7.4.  Appoint an AF/A2/6 official as the central point of contact for the USAF 
Intelligence Community on continuity issues and to manage, oversee and ensure continuity 
readiness and compliance with the Defense Intelligence Enterprise. 
2.1.7.5.  Designate an Intelligence Community Exercise Forum POC to coordinate 
AF/A2/6 exercise activities with other intelligence community components. 
2.1.7.6.  Designate a National Intelligence Community Continuity Operations Response 
Element continuity planner to coordinate and directly support Office Director of National 
Intelligence continuity operations. 
2.1.8.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) will: 
2.1.8.1.  Establish guidance to maintain a comprehensive and effective continuity 
capability to preserve execution of USAF essential functions, missions, capabilities, and 
tasks in support of the DoD PMEFs, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) MEFs, 
and DAF MEFs. 
2.1.8.2.  Develop, coordinate, and validate USAF COOP requirements. 
2.1.9.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) 
will: 
2.1.9.1.  Incorporate protection of MEFs in operations planning standards and vulnerability 
assessment requirements. 
2.1.9.2.  Incorporate continuity in emergency management standards. 
2.1.9.3.  Ensure units establish procedures for COOP requirements for incorporation into 
Emergency Management and Force Protection programs. 
2.1.10.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7) will incorporate continuity 
in strategy, future force design, and capability development. 
2.1.11.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will establish a mechanism 
to identify programming for continuity funding. 
2.1.12.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) will: 
2.1.12.1.  Establish policy and guidance for continuity in health protection. 
2.1.12.2.  Provide guidance and ensure AF/SG assets comply with Medical Continuity of 
Operations (MCOOP) requirements outlined in AFI 41-106, Air Force Medical Readiness 
Program. 
2.1.13.  The Director of Operations (AF/A3O), DCS/Operations is responsible for USAF-wide 
COOP guidance and will: 
2.1.13.1.  Establish reporting requirements and/or metrics on organizational continuity 
readiness. 
10 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
2.1.13.2.  Ensure the AFOG, in coordination with the SAF/AA has continuity plans for 
dealing with national and National Capital Region localized emergency situations ensuring 
the continued performance of DAF MEFs. 
2.1.13.3.  Plan, execute and evaluate national and joint exercises with HAF continuity 
related events with assistance from the SAF/AA, AFOG, Space Force Deputy Chief of 
Space Operations for Operations, Cyber, and Nuclear (SF/COO), Air Force Crisis Action 
Team, and Space Force Crisis Action Team offices. 
2.1.13.4.  Develop and publish in MICT a COOP Self-Assessment Checklist with 
compliance requirements, in accordance with DAFI 90-302 applicable to all DAF 
organizations with essential functions. 
2.1.14.  The Air Force Service Watch Cell (AFSWC) will (T-1): 
2.1.14.1.  Maintain a 24/7 website to track the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL for current location of DAF Top 8 leadership: (SecAF, USecAF, CSAF, VCSAF, 
AF/DS, CMSAF, CSO, and VCSO) and MAJCOM/CC leadership (ACC, AETC, AFGSC, 
AFMC, AFRC, AFSOC, AMC, ANG, PACAF, USAFE-AFAFRICA). 
2.1.14.2.  Ensure commanders’ status is available to the CSAF and VCSAF Monday 
through Friday, covering a 24-hour period. Friday’s report will include the weekend and 
holiday, as applicable. Only individuals with an active DAF Top 8 and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL account may access the KPL. 
2.1.14.3.  Initiate commanders’ availability checks when directed by CSAF, VCSAF, or 
AF/DS. 
2.1.14.4.  Manage the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL website, permissions 
for members, review KPL POCs, and coordinate website access and revocation, when 
applicable. 
2.1.14.5.  Establish quarterly DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL reviews. 
Schedule and coordinate with DAF Top 8 Key Leadership, MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
POCs for updates. 
2.1.14.6.  The 
AFSWC 
will 
provide 
access 
to 
the 
DAF 
Top 
8 
and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL to Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air 
Force COOP (SAF/AAC). 
2.1.15.  USSF Chief of Current Operations (SF/COO/O) is the USSF OPR for USSF-wide 
COOP guidance and will: 
2.1.15.1.  Establish guidance to maintain a comprehensive and effective continuity 
capability to preserve execution of essential functions, missions, capabilities and tasks in 
support of the DoD PMEFs, CJCS MEF, and DAF MEFs. 
2.1.15.2.  Ensure USSF forces supporting the National Military Command System and 
combatant, sub-unified and USSF component commands have COOP programs. 
2.1.16.  HAF Staff Offices, will: 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
11 
2.1.16.1.  Conduct a MEF review as per guidance of SAF/AA.  If MEFs are identified, 
provide personnel, communications, and information technology (IT) requirements to 
SAF/AA. 
2.1.16.2.  HAF 2-letter offices who have identified MEFs, will develop and update a COOP 
Plan every two years to complement the HAF COOP OPORD to provide details on the 
execution and devolution of their MEF, Business Continuity Plan, and guidance to all 
personnel during continuity events. 
2.1.16.3.  HAF 2-letter offices who have not identified any MEFs will develop a Business 
Continuity Plan. 
2.1.16.4.  Ensure the Principal’s data in the HAF KPL is correct and up to date, as of the 
current duty day as required by HOI 10-03. This includes information for the individual 
appointed in a successor/acting capacity and Joint Emergency Evacuation Plan (JEEP) 
primary 
and 
alternate 
personnel. 
URL: 
https://usaf.dps.mil/:f:/r/sites/saf-
aa/AAC/Shared%20Documents/KPL%20Resources/Tracker?csf=1&web=1&e=stlj
BT 
2.1.16.5.  The Executive Staffs for DAF Top 8 (SecAF, USecAF, CSAF, VCSAF, AF/DS, 
CMSAF, CSO, and VCSO) will provide DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL 
updates NLT 0800 Eastern Time, Monday through Friday (except holidays). 
2.1.16.6.  Attach the Principal’s itinerary to the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL. 
2.1.16.7.  Update the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL with itinerary 
changes, as soon as possible. 
2.1.16.8.  Provide immediate telephone/verbal/IM notification to AFSWC upon updating 
DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC mid-day itinerary changes within the KPL. 
2.2.  Air Force District of Washington (AFDW).  The Commander, Air Force District of 
Washington (AFDW/CC) will support the execution of the HAF COOP OPORD. 
2.3.  DAF COOP Program.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAF, and the ANG Readiness 
Centers will establish command-wide COOP programs to include: 
2.3.1.  Supplementing DAFI 10-208 (this DAFI) with MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAF 
and ANG specific continuity guidance as applicable. This guidance, unless specifically 
permitted, shall not be less restrictive than this instruction. Note: All ANG units must follow 
the guidance provided by their gaining MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and the ANG supplement to this 
DAFI. If the MAJCOM and FLDCOM guidance conflicts with the ANG supplement, the 
gaining MAJCOM and FLDCOM guidance will prevail. In the absence of MAJCOM and 
FLDCOM guidance, ANG units will utilize the ANG supplement for COOP plan guidance. 
The inspecting authority for the COOP program within the individual ANG units resides with 
the gaining MAJCOM and FLDCOM. In the case where an Air Force Commander is in charge 
of an AOC; MAJCOMs, through the Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR), are 
responsible to provide oversight to ensure AOCs follow DAF guidance to maintain current 
COOP plans that are exercised and documented annually with appropriate supporting 
memorandums of agreement/memorandums of understanding. 
12 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
2.3.2.  Ensuring continuity requirements for MEF capabilities are incorporated in daily 
operations to ensure rapid response to a wide range of emergencies, including local or regional 
natural disasters, health- related emergencies, accidents, technological limitations, or attack-
related emergencies. 
2.3.3.  Ensuring all DAF military, civilian and contract personnel know what actions they 
should take with or without warning, across a wide range of potential emergencies, to ensure 
continuity of assigned MEFs both in-garrison and while deployed. Ensure COOP mission 
essential civilian position descriptions and contracts for contract personnel identify those that 
fill a mission essential position. 
2.3.4.  Integrating continuity guidance with mission assurance related programs such as 
Antiterrorism, Emergency Management, CARM, Cyber Security, Cyber Resilience, Energy 
Resilience, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Protection, and Physical 
Security Programs to enhance mission assurance. Integrating continuity efforts to build Cyber 
Resilience, to include: 
2.3.4.1.  Identifying the criticality and priority of information systems required to perform 
essential functions as identified in the DoD Component COOP plan. 
2.3.4.2.  Identifying the primary and alternate systems for performing essential functions 
as identified in the DoD Component COOP plan. 
2.3.4.3.  Coordinating with command, control, communications, and computer experts to 
test information systems necessary to perform essential functions and develop their 
information systems contingency plans to support the restoration of information systems 
to meet the Maximum Tolerable Downtime of Mission Essential Functions. 
2.3.4.4.  Ensuring that exercises include operating essential functions during command, 
control, communications, and computer system degradation or failure. 
2.3.4.5.  Integrating continuity efforts to build energy resilience, to include: 
2.3.4.5.1.  Identifying the criticality and priority of energy systems required to perform 
essential functions as identified in the DoD Component COOP plan. 
2.3.4.5.2.  Identifying the primary and alternate systems for performing essential 
functions as identified in the DoD Component COOP plan. Plans will consider the 
possibility of catastrophic conditions preventing adequate resupply operations. 
2.3.4.6.  Ensuring that exercises include operating essential functions during energy supply 
degradation or failure. Installation owners are encouraged to “stress test” for complete 
outage situations, and consider impacts on other requirements, such as cyber resilience. 
2.3.5.  Establishing procedures for reporting and tracking exercise findings. May utilize the 
Inspector General Evaluation Management System (IGEMS) to facilitate scheduling, planning, 
inspecting, reporting, and tracking of exercises. Provide Headquarters (HQ)-level exercise 
findings and lessons learned to Air Force Mission Assurance COOP Branch (AF/A3OB). 
2.3.6.  Appointing an overall COOP Program Office and/or Program Manager (PM), in 
writing, and provide a copy to AF/A3OB. The PM should understand the organization’s 
mission and functions. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
13 
2.3.7.  Appointing knowledgeable internal HQ A-Staff functional (i.e., A1, A2, A3, Civil 
Engineering, Security Forces, JA, PA, IG, etc.) to assist the COOP PM to develop integrated 
guidance to enhance continuity capability and mitigate mission risk. 
2.3.8.  Developing, validating, prioritizing MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAF/ANG-wide 
MEFs. 
2.3.9.  Reporting COOP Metrics to AF/A3OB. Reportable metrics, determined by AF/A3OB, 
will include the annual review of the MAJCOM and FLDCOM HQ COOP Plan and annual 
COOP exercises. MAJCOM HQ, FLDCOM HQ, DRUs, and ANG COOP offices will keep 
similar metrics on their subordinate units. 
2.3.10.  MAJCOM HQ, FLDCOM HQ, DRU, FOA, NAFs will submit COOP plans to 
AF/A3OB annually NLT 1 December. 
2.3.11.  Annually conduct COOP program review of subordinate units utilizing, at a minimum, 
the MICT SAC and provide feedback on discrepancies. 
2.3.12.  MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs monitor and assess HQ and subordinate MICT data and 
COOP plans to ensure compliance with DAFI 90-302 
2.4.  DAF COOP Planning.  MAJCOM and FLDCOM HQs, DRUs, ANG, FOAs, NAFs, 
Centers/Wings/Deltas will develop COOP plans by: 
2.4.1.  Appointing a COOP PM responsible to the organizations’ Commander for COOP. 
2.4.2.  Developing and publishing a viable and executable COOP plan (or plans) using 
approved template in Attachment 4 and on Air Force COOP SharePoint™ Page at 
https://usaf.dps.mil/:f:/t/A3OB-
COOP/EhwNBo_2lkVIjvPUEShpbL4BiU6dRTz64D9Gmh6CKcecjA?e=K6DzU. Refer 
to Chapter 3 for planning guidance. It is acceptable for a HQ staff/subordinate unit to 
incorporate their MEFs/plan information into a consolidated higher organization’s plan. 
2.4.3.  Ensuring all individuals designated in the COOP plan to relocate as part of the COOP 
plan are fully qualified, informed and ready to accomplish MEFs with no advance notice. 
Functional commanders will include requirements for emergency operations in the contract 
Performance Work Statement (PWS) for contractors, if necessary. 
2.4.4.  Ensuring civilians who support COOP Plan MEFs accept COOP responsibilities and 
that position descriptions reflect COOP requirements, to include necessary security clearances. 
Officials must establish primary and alternate “by name” personnel rosters to fill positions 
identified. In order to accommodate COOP staff turnover, COOP responsibilities may be 
incorporated into position description addendums and associated with core position 
descriptions as appropriate. 
2.4.5.  Exercising COOP plans in accordance with DAFI 90-302. COOP exercises should 
include a test of ability to operate across a wide range of functions (e.g., personnel, intelligence, 
operations, logistics, civil engineering and force protection) in a degraded cyber environment. 
If feasible, organizations should incorporate COOP plans in established DAF or Joint 
exercises.  Report lessons learned and updates to COOP plans to assigned 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAFs to AF/A3OB within 90 days of end of exerices. See 
CJCS Guide 3501 and AFI 10-204, Air Force Service Exercise Program and Support to Joint 
and National Exercise Program for further guidance. 
14 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
2.4.6.  Using COOP Self-Assessment Checklist in MICT in accordance with DAFI 90-302 
Chapter 12. 
2.4.7.  Ensuring that continuity programs are adequately planned, programmed and budgeted 
to meet the requirements set forth in this DAFI. Organizations will report COOP expenditures 
and budget information for planned COOP requirements and operations/exercises as requested 
by MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAFs. MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAFs will then 
report these expenditures to AF/A3OB NLT 1 December. 
2.4.8.  Establishing a COOP working group to help facilitate MEF/COOP requirements and to 
ensure COOP planning includes tenant organizations and is documented in support 
agreements. The COOP working group can be combined with other appropriate working 
groups. 
2.5.  MAJCOM and FLDCOM Staff Offices and Command Centers. 
2.5.1.  The Executive Staff for the MAJCOM and FLDCOM Commanders listed will provide 
their MAJCOM and FLDCOM Center and the Commander’s designated alternate (if 
appropriate) with a copy of the Commander’s and/or Vice Commander’s itineraries within the 
timelines prescribed in Attachment 6. 
2.5.2.  MAJCOM and FLDCOM KPL POCs will: 
2.5.2.1.  Update the MAJCOM and FLDCOM Commander’s status in the DAF Top 8 and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL daily, no earlier than 0500Z and NLT 0700Z, Monday 
through Friday, except holidays. 
2.5.2.2.  Ensure the Command Center is equipped with SIPRNET terminal in accordance 
with AFMAN 10-207, Command Posts. 
2.5.2.3.  Ensure controllers have access to the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL SharePointTM site from within the Command Center. 
2.5.2.4.  Know the location and telephone number of their commander or designated 
alternate at all times and be capable of contacting them in accordance with Attachment 6, 
paragraph A6.6 of this instruction. 
2.5.2.5.  Ensure AFSWC is informed of changes to their commanders’ current location 
(home station, TDY location, etc.) and status (present for duty, leave, etc.) at all times. 
2.5.2.6.  Report/update the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL with itinerary 
changes in accordance with this instruction. 
2.5.2.7.  Attach commanders’ availability reports (CAR) to the DAF Top 8 and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL when available. 
2.5.2.8.  Provide immediate telephone/verbal notification to AFSWC upon updating 
Principal’s mid-day itinerary changes within the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
15 
Chapter 3 
COOP PLAN DEVELOPMENT 
3.1.  Writing COOP Plans.  COOP plans may use planning factors contained in this instruction 
and the War and Mobilization Plan, Volume 1 (WMP-1), Basic Plan. To ensure fully integrated 
response operations, commanders can include COOP plans with other installation plans, such as 
the Installation Emergency Management Plan, Integrated Defense Plan, Disease Containment 
Plans or other plans as long as all COOP planning factors, risks and controls are addressed. If 
Commands combine COOP plans with their other plans, title the plan “Plan/COOP- (organization 
designation)." Organizations can adopt any format that best achieves their planning goals or as 
directed by the MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAF. 
3.1.1.  Prior to writing continuity plans, organizations should complete a thorough analysis of 
the mission and functions of the organization, supporting activities, systems, communications, 
and essential records/data necessary for successful mission execution. The Business Process 
Analysis, from Federal Continuity Directive 2, Federal Executive Branch Mission Essential 
Functions and Candidate Primary Mission Essential Functions Identification and Submission 
Process, may be used as a systematic method to conduct this analysis. 
3.1.2.  For locations where the DAF is the tenant, ensure the host’s Emergency Management 
Plan reflects COOP information to satisfy DAF requirements. 
3.1.3.  COOP plans should be consistent with guidance in mission assurance directives and 
instructions. 
3.2.  Classifying COOP Plans.  Classify COOP plans according to content as required by 
program Security Classification Guide, MEFs, mission criticality, capabilities, key personnel 
movement, compilation of data revealing additional associations or relationships and the specific 
plan(s) supported. COOP plans will not be classified lower than Controlled Unclassified 
Information (CUI). 
3.2.1.  Use the Department of Defense Continuity Security Classification Guide for details and 
to determine specific classification decisions where ambiguity exists and/or no original 
classification authority is available. 
3.2.2.  Contact 
the 
Continuity 
of 
Operations 
Branch 
(AF/A3OB) 
via 
email 
AF.A3OB.Workflow@us.af.mil for additional guidance. 
3.3.  Elements of a Continuity Plan.  COOP Plans, when implemented, will provide for the 
continued performance of MEFs under all circumstances and must be executable with and without 
warning, during and after duty hours and will include the following elements: 
3.3.1.  Mission Essential Functions. An accurate assessment of MEFs will allow the most 
efficient and effective use of leadership, staff, facilities and communications during a crisis. 
Refer to Attachment 3 for further guidance on developing MEFs. 
3.3.1.1.  Prioritize MEFs based on the impact of interruption and degree of acceptable 
interruption. 
3.3.1.2.  Identify leadership, staff, facilities and communications equipment, supplies, 
interdependencies and/or other resources necessary to execute each MEF. 
16 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
3.3.1.3.  Assess, prioritize, and identify MEF interdependencies with other organizations. 
3.3.1.4.  Integrate Operations Security (OPSEC) into all aspects of the plan. 
3.3.2.  Orders of Succession and Delegation of Authority. 
3.3.2.1.  Establish pre-planned and documented emergency orders of succession and/or 
delegation of authority for essential functions and key leadership positions in the event a 
disruption renders leadership unavailable or incapable of executing their responsibilities 
and/or exercising their authorities. See DAFI 51-509, Appointment to and Assumption of 
Command, for specific guidance. 
3.3.2.2.  Commanders will establish, promulgate, and maintain orders of succession for key 
leadership and management positions. (T-0) Orders of succession should include at least 
three positions identified in the line of succession. 
3.3.2.3.  Procedures and conditions for delegation of authority to make policy 
determination must be documented in COOP plans and will indicate the extent and limits 
of the delegated authority. Address how pre-determined delegations of authority take effect 
when normal channels of directions have been disrupted and lapse when channels have 
been reestablished. 
3.3.3.  Personnel Considerations. 
3.3.3.1.  Identify key military, civilian and contractor positions with COOP responsibilities 
under normal and emergency procedures. 
3.3.3.2.  Establish alert and notification procedures for continuity personnel. Ensure others 
are available through recall procedures to augment continuity personnel. Develop 
accountability procedures for all DAF personnel. 
3.3.3.3.  Identify procedures to ensure force health protection for unit personnel. Reference 
installation's Disease Containment Plan (DCP) or source document for disease containment 
guidelines. AFI 10-2519, Public Health Emergencies and Incidents of Public Health 
Concern, provides guidance to protect installations, facilities, and personnel during public 
health emergency incidents. 
3.3.3.4.  Ensure compliance with reporting requirements outlined in paragraphs 2.1.16.4 – 
2.1.16.8, 2.5.1 – 2.5.2.8, and Attachment 6. 
3.3.3.5.  Establish counter CBRN protection measures for key and other personnel, based 
on the likelihood of applicable CBRN threats. 
3.3.3.6.  Establish procedures and expectations for staff who are not designated as 
continuity personnel and address these in business continuity and emergency plans. In 
preparation for emergencies, organizations should have telework policies in place that 
provide employees with instructions, procedures and expectations. Telework policies and 
procedures should be incorporated into continuity plans. 
3.3.4.  Communications. The ability of an organization to execute MEFs at continuity facilities 
depends on the identification, availability, reliability and redundancy of critical secure and 
non-secure communications and information technology systems. Minimum requirements 
include secure and non-secure voice, data, and video as specified for the primary facility or as 
modified by higher headquarters directives. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
17 
3.3.4.1.  COOP plans will identify military-specific equipment (e.g., common access card 
readers) and internal/external access (e.g., commercial website, SharePoint™ sites) and 
test for military, civilians or contractors to perform work as required. 
3.3.4.2.  Organizations should establish procedures to distribute Government Emergency 
Telecommunications Service (GETS) or Wireless Priority Service (WPS) cards, as 
required, and to distribute handheld communication devices, computers, etc. Information 
on these can be found at the Department GETS and WPS websites. 
3.3.4.3.  Organizations will annually review their continuity communications to ensure 
they are fully capable of supporting their MEFs. (T-2) 
3.3.4.4.  Personnel will be trained on and exercise all continuity communications systems 
under all conditions bi-annually. (T-2) 
3.3.4.5.  COOP plans will include tactics, techniques and procedures for performing MEFs 
under conditions of degraded communications and network support. 
3.3.4.6.  Organizations should utilize the Primary, Alternate, Contingency, Emergency 
(PACE) planning methodology when developing communications requirements and 
options pertaining to COOP. Planners should identify and prioritize communication 
options within their respective COOP plans ensuring multiple levels of redundancy. Ideally 
each communication method should be completely separate and independent of the other 
systems of communication. 
3.3.5.  Transportation. Establish pre-planned transportation plans for moving personnel to 
relocation sites, during duty and non-duty hours, and sustaining operations. 
3.3.6.  Facilities. Although MEFs are most efficiently executed from the primary operating 
location, the use of relocation sites enhances the resilience and continuity capability of 
organizations. Commanders should develop procedures and risk mitigation strategies to 
continue operations at the primary location for MEFs by implementing force protection, 
physical security or other means to enhance operational capability. Disease containment and 
contamination avoidance measures should also be considered when appropriate to the threat. 
However, when it is not possible to continue operations at the primary location, a pre-identified 
relocation site, or alternate means of continuing operations that does not require a dedicated 
facility (e.g., virtual operations), is mandatory. Telework options may be considered based on 
the nature of the COOP event when the MEF requirements can be met. 
3.3.6.1.  Organizations will identify off site/installation relocation sites for MEF execution 
during continuity threats or events. (T-0) Site selection shall consider information systems 
and networks, geographical dispersion, physical security, transportation access, host 
support 
capability 
and 
maximize 
co-location 
and 
dual-use 
facilities 
when 
possible/practical. Consideration should be given to the site’s ability to support operations 
until normal operations can be resumed. Lodging and messing are two examples of support 
requirements that may be levied upon the site host or installation. Identify sources and 
phone numbers for lodging in the area of the relocation site if the site is located away from 
the home base/local community. Establish memorandum of agreement/understanding, as 
required. Refer to AFI 25-201, Intra- Service, Intra-Agency, and Inter-Agency Support 
Agreements Procedures, for additional guidance. 
18 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
3.3.6.2.  Ensure sufficient space, infrastructure, power, life support and network 
connectivity are available at relocation sites. Ensure power, life support and network 
connectivity at relocation sites are not provided through the same pathways and systems as 
the primary location. A risk assessment may warrant backup or redundant capabilities (e.g., 
power, life support and network) at the relocation sites. 
3.3.6.3.  Establish procedures for maintaining relocation sites in a readiness state to be fully 
operational no later than 12 hours after activation with pre-positioned unique equipment 
and supplies, as necessary. Maintaining relocation sites should include keeping areas free 
of storage items and hazards. Installation Commanders, Space Base Delta Commanders, 
and Mission Owners should ensure facility managers inspect these areas periodically (at 
least once annually), to ensure COOP operations and mission assurance capabilities. 
Establish memorandums of agreement/understanding as required. 
3.3.6.4.  Develop procedures for initial activation of relocation sites and for continuity staff 
to perform when alternate work location or telework is implemented. This may include 
testing communication systems, performing accountability checks and preparing and 
transmitting status and situation reports. 
3.3.6.5.  Develop procedures and identify contract support activities to procure equipment 
and supplies “just in time” that are not pre-positioned at relocation sites. 
3.3.6.6.  Disease containment may require other strategies, such as physical separation 
from each other, which can be achieved through split shifts, telework, alternate work 
schedules, and/or dispersing personnel within available workspace or to relocation sites. 
3.3.6.7.  Review site suitability and functionality annually, validate continuity 
requirements.  Document the date and names of personnel conducting the 
review/validation. 
3.3.7.  Essential Records. Identify, protect and ensure availability of electronic and hardcopy 
documents, references, records, information systems and data management software and 
equipment needed to support essential functions during a crisis. Essential records are those 
records needed to support essential functions during a continuity event. 
3.3.7.1.  Provide for the identification, storage, protection and availability for use at 
relocation sites of the essential records, materiel and databases required to execute MEFs. 
Prepositioning and storage procedures should be endurable, survivable and redundant. 
3.3.7.2.  Test and update essential records programs and capabilities, as required. 
3.3.7.3.  Continuity personnel will be trained and exercised on essential records access and 
programs bi-annually. (T-2) 
3.3.7.4.  Establish procedures for fly-away kits which contain critical office items/records 
that cannot be pre-positioned. Ensure compliance with Personally Identifiable Information 
(PII), Public Law 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act as 
amended; as applicable, and other information assurance standards, if electronic media are 
used in fly-away kits. Include copies of delegations of authority in the essential records and 
ensure they are available at all continuity facilities in the event the continuity plan is 
activated. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
19 
3.3.8.  Tests, Training and Exercises.  Continuity plans will be exercised at least annually to 
evaluate and validate program readiness and train continuity personnel. IGEMS will be used 
to document these exercises.  Evaluate plan and program readiness at least twice annually 
utilizing MICT to document these evaluations. 
3.3.8.1.  Demonstrate, assess and improve the capabilities of units to execute their COOP 
plans through the use of comprehensive test/training/execution plans to ensure essential 
functions can be performed during all continuity events. 
3.3.8.2.  COOP exercises should include a test of ability to operate across a wide range of 
functions (e.g., personnel, intelligence, operations, logistics, civil engineering and force 
protection) in a degraded cyber environment. 
3.3.8.3.  Ensure COOP training is conducted with all individuals, including civilians and 
contractors. 
3.3.8.3.1.  Generalized Training. Everyone assigned should be trained on alert, recall 
and emergency contact procedures. Everyone has a COOP responsibility, even if it is 
simply to “prepare self/family for the unexpected, get out of the way, follow the 
directions of civil/military authorities, and maintain accountability/contact with 
officials through supervisors and other reporting methods.” 
3.3.8.3.2.  MEF/COOP responsible individuals will ensure a knowledgeable individual 
provide specialized and in-depth COOP training for MEF/plan responsible individuals, 
program 
office/developers, 
and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/FOA/NAF/wing/delta/squadron/unit COOP POCs. (T-1) 
3.3.9.  Devolution of Control and Direction. Organizations will evaluate whether devolution 
of authority is suitable for their essential function. If suitable, the organization will establish 
pre-planned and emergency devolutions of authority for essential functions and key positions. 
(T-0) 
3.3.9.1.  Devolution requires the transition of roles and responsibilities for performance of 
MEFs through pre-authorized delegations of authority and responsibility. Devolution 
planning addresses catastrophes and emergencies that render an organization’s leadership 
and continuity personnel unavailable or incapable of performing its MEFs from either the 
organization’s primary operating facility or relocation site. 
3.3.9.2.  The devolution plan should address personnel, planning, resource and training 
considerations needed to transfer statutory authority and responsibilities for performance 
of essential functions from the organization’s primary operating staff to other employees 
internal or external to the organization at a geographically dispersed location unaffected by 
the incident. 
3.3.9.3.  MEFs will be planned to be devolved to another organization provided execution 
timelines are met (0-12 hours). When MEFs are transferred, COOP plans should include 
specifics on the transfer of MEFs (triggers, organization, location, anticipated duration, 
etc.) and provisions for resumption of MEFs by the primary organization. Delineate any 
delegations of authority when MEFs are transferred. Establish MOAs/MOUs between 
organizations, if required. 
20 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
3.3.10.  Reconstitution/Return to Normal Operations. Organizations will ensure plans provide 
for reconstitution capabilities that allow for recovery from an emergency and resumption of 
normal operations. (T-0) 
3.3.10.1.  Plan options for reconstitution capabilities and return to normal operations 
regardless of the level of disruption that originally prompted COOP execution. This may 
include moving operations from the continuity or devolution location to either the original 
operating facility or, if necessary, to a new operating facility. Non-essential functions 
should be prioritized for restoration operations. 
3.3.10.2.  Verify that all systems, communications and other required capabilities are 
available and operational, and that the facility is fully capable of accomplishing all essential 
functions and operations. 
3.3.10.3.  Vendors or other outsourcing support for reconstitution should be identified. 
3.4.  Risk Management (RM). 
3.4.1.  The RM Process. Supports the overarching Continuity Program Management Cycle 
(Figure 1.1) by identifying the critical risks to organizational readiness and the strategies that 
best mitigate those risks. 
3.4.2.  Applying the RM principles during the Readiness and Preparedness/Normal Operations 
Phase to mitigate risk to MEF execution. Plans should place increased planning emphasis on 
the events most likely to occur and which will most likely degrade operations beyond 
acceptable limits. Refer to AFI 90-802, Risk Management, and Department of the Air Force 
Pamphlet (DAFPAM) 90-803, Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools, for further 
information. 
3.4.2.1.  Commanders should apply RM principles to guide decisions about when, where 
and how to invest in resources that eliminate, control or mitigate mission risk. Continuity 
strategies should seek to improve resilience to mission disruption by ensuring critical 
MEFs continue at, or are recovered to, an acceptable minimum level and within acceptable 
timeframes. 
3.4.2.2.  Continuity risk assessments integrate a historical review of past events that have 
affected normal operations (e.g., natural disasters, disruptions of communication, power 
and other utilities, threats to public safety) with a dynamic analysis of other potential 
threats, such as acts of terrorism (from both foreign and domestic agents) and war. A 
continuity risk assessment should assess the risk to each continuity facility and identify 
acceptable level of risk to each facility. Risk assessments performed through other mission 
assurance programs, such as CARM, may be applied to build a continuity risk assessment. 
3.5.  Planning Phases.  The COOP implementation process includes the following planning 
phases. (See Figure 1.1.) 
 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
21 
3.5.1.  Readiness and Preparedness (Normal Operations) Phase. During normal daily 
operations, COOP readiness should ensure identification and protection of mission essential 
assets, successors/military authority, accuracy of personnel accountability and readiness of 
relocation sites. As information and intelligence increase the likelihood of an event or other 
disruption, every effort should be made to plan or implement pre-emptive relocation or 
establish an initial operating capability for critical missions and assets at relocation sites. This 
could also include sending non-essential personnel home as a means of dispersal. 
3.5.2.  Activation and Relocation Phase (0-12 hours). This phase includes the activation of 
plans, procedures, and schedules for the continuation of essential functions. Continuity 
personnel must be fully operational at the alternate facility as soon as possible but no later than 
12 hours after continuity activation. The activation and implementation of a continuity plan 
and its associated procedures may require the use of alternate locations, depending upon the 
incident and its effect on normal operations. 
3.5.3.  Continuity Operations Phase. Activities in this phase includes MEF execution, with a 
focus on military operations, communications, transportation, accountability of personnel in 
the affected areas, and reconstitution of the organization. Plan for this phase to last up to 30 
days. Affected organizations should notify command and control agencies of manpower and 
capability at relocation sites. Refer to AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting (OPREP), for 
reporting requirements. Address the restoration of command staffs, capabilities and functions 
as resources and operational tasks permit. 
3.5.4.  Return to Normal Operations Phase. This phase begins when an appropriate authority 
directs the return to normal operations. During this phase, begin implementing plans to resume 
normal operations, accountability of personnel in the affected areas, and reconstitution of the 
organization. Supervise an orderly return to the normal operating facilities, or movement to a 
temporary or permanent facility. Maintain communication with command-and-control 
agencies during transition and report mission manpower and capability. Depending on the 
situation, the appropriate authority may instead direct rebuilding the organization through 
reconstitution. 
22 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
Chapter 4 
DAF TOP 8 AND MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KEY PERSONNEL LOCATOR 
4.1.  DAF 
Top 
8 
and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL.  The 
DAF 
Top 
8 
and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL is a web-based application hosted on the SIPRNET designated to 
provide users with current status and location information of key DAF personnel, 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM Commanders, their alternates or successors, and how to contact these 
personnel. Designated users can enter and modify specific data for the personnel in their 
organizations. Additionally, travel itineraries and other relevant scheduling information can be 
uploaded to the system as additional references and attachments. The DAF Top 8 and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL 
is 
located 
on 
the 
SIPRNET 
at 
intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/afa3/O/O/SitePages/KPL.aspx. Users must be permissioned to 
access this system. 
4.2.  DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL Accounts. 
4.2.1.  DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL site access will be requested by sending 
an email on SIPRNET to AFSWC at usaf.pentagon.af-a3.mbx.afwatch@mail.smil.mil. 
Questions regarding permissions will be directed to AFSWC, DSN 312-227-6103 or 
commercial 703-697-6103, 24/7. Requests for accounts should include the following 
information: 
4.2.1.1.  First and Last name of requesting individual. 
4.2.1.2.  SIPRNET email account of requesting individual. 
4.2.1.3.  Office Symbol of Principal (e.g., “CSAF,” etc.). 
4.2.2.  Additions and deletions to the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL 
(Principals). Will be added or deleted from the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL 
using the following criteria: 
4.2.2.1.  Additions. AFSWC will add principals to the list as required to track key 
personnel and provide up-to-date information for DAF continuity programs. If the AFSWC 
does not have a requirement to track the requesting Principal (i.e., the CSAF has not 
provided direction to track the principal), the request for addition will be denied. If the 
request is approved, the tasked office will be provided a copy of this instruction and a guide 
sheet outlining DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL operating procedures. (T-1) 
4.2.2.2.  Deletions. AFSWC will delete principals based on change of duty station, 
retirement etc. If deletion is being requested from a principal’s office for another reason, 
an email will be sent the AFSWC via SIPR with this request. 
4.2.2.3.  AFSWC will establish and conduct DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
KPL quarterly reviews of all DAF Top 8 key personnel, MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC 
principals, and will provide updates to the SAF/AAC for HAF’s JEEP primary and 
alternate updates. (T-1) 
 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
23 
4.2.3.  Permissions to the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL for POCs responsible 
for tracking their principal will be granted or revoked when members arrive or depart that 
office. If these movements occur before the quarterly reviews, offices may send an email to 
the AFSWC SIPR box stating either “DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL Site 
Access Request” or “DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL Site Access Revocation.” 
4.3.  DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL Reporting Procedures.  The DAF Top 8 
and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL will be updated using the procedures in Attachment 6, 
paragraph A6.1. 
 
EDWIN H. OSHIBA, SES, DAF 
Administrative Assistant 
24 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Title 10 USC § 151, Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Title 10 USC §§ 9011-9842, Organization 
National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD) 51/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 
(HSPD) 20, National Continuity Policy 
Federal Continuity Directive 2, Federal Executive Branch Mission Essential Functions and 
Candidate Primary Mission Essential Functions Identification and Submission Process, 13 June 
2017 
Public Law 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
DoDD 3020.26, Department of Defense Continuity Policy, 14 February 2018 
DoDI 3020.45, Mission Assurance (MA) Construct, 14 August 2018 
DoDI 1035.01_ DAFI 36-143, Telework Program, 11 March 2022 
DoD Continuity Security Classification Guidance, 1 September 2022 
CJCSI 3411.01E, Key Personnel Location Reports to the National Military Command Center, 23 
August 2016 
CJCS Guide 3501, The Joint Training System: A Guide For Senior Leaders, 5 May 2015 
DAFPD 10-2, Readiness, 20 May 2021 
AFPD 51-5, Administrative Law, Gifts, and Command Relationships, 31 August 2018 
AFPD 10-24, Mission Assurance, 5 November 2019 
DAFMAN 90-161, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 15 April 2022 
AFI 10-204, Air Force Service Exercise Program and Support to Joint and National Exercise 
Program, 6 September 2023 
AFI 10-2519, Public Health Emergencies and Incidents of Public Health Concern, 10 December 
2019 
AFI 25-201, Intra-Service, Intra-Agency, and Inter-Agency Support Agreements Procedures, 18 
October 2013 
AFI 33-322, Record Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
AFI 41-106, Air Force Medical Readiness Program, 29 July 2020 
DAFI 51-509, Appointment to and Assumption of Command, 10 February 2023 
DAFI 90-302, The Inspection System of the Department of the Air Force,15 March 2023 
AFI 90-802, Risk Management, 1 April 2019 
AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting (OPREP), 18 June 2018 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
25 
AFMAN 10-207, Command Posts, 11 April 2018 
DAFPAM 90-803, Risk Management (RM) Guidelines and Tools, 23 March 2022 
HAF COOP OPORD 3-18 (S), Headquarters United States Air Force Continuity of Operations, 
24 September 2021 
HOI 10-3, Headquarters Air Force Continuity of Operations Program, 17 June 2021 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Defense for Homeland Defense and Hemispheric Affairs 
(ASD (HD&HA)), 01 September 2022 
WMP-1, Basic Plan, 10 February 2012 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 679, Department of the Air Force Publication Compliance Item Waiver 
Request/Approval 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AETC—Air Education and Training Command 
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington 
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
AFOG—Air Force Operations Group 
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFR—Air Force Reserve 
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command 
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command 
AFSWC—Air Force Service Watch Cell 
AMC—Air Mobility Command 
ANG—Air National Guard 
CAP—Corrective Action Plan 
CAR—Commander’s Availability Report 
CARM—Critical Asset Risk Management 
26 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
CONPLAN—Concept Plans 
CONUS—Continental United States 
COO—Chief Operations Officer 
COOP—Continuity of Operations 
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFPAM—Department of the Air Force Pamphlet 
DCP—Disease Containment Plan, Defense Continuity Program, or Defense Continuity Plan 
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DRRS—Defense Readiness and Reporting System 
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
FOA—Field Operating Agency 
GETS—Government Emergency Telecommunications Service 
HAF—Headquarters of the Department of the Air Force 
HSPD—Homeland Security Presidential Directive 
HQ—Headquarters 
HAF COOP OPORD—Headquarters Air Force COOP Operations Order 
HOI—Headquarters Office Instruction 
IGEMS—Inspector General Evaluation Management System 
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff 
JEEP—Joint Emergency Evacuation Plan 
JSP—Joint Service Provider 
KPL—Key Personnel Locator 
MA—Mission Assurance 
MAAP—Mission Assurance Assessment Program 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
27 
MARPA—Mission Assurance Related Programs and Activities 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
MCOOP—Medical Continuity of Operations 
MEF—Mission Essential Function 
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset 
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement 
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding 
MTD—Maximum Tolerable Downtime 
NAF—Numbered Air Forces 
NEF—National Essential Functions 
NCR—National Capital Region 
NLT—Not Later Than 
NMCC—National Military Command Center 
NSPD—National Security Presidential Directive 
OPLAN—Operational Plan 
OPORD—Operations Order 
OPREP—Operational Reporting 
OPSEC—Operations Security 
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense 
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces 
PACE—Primary, Alternate, Contingency, and Emergency 
PII—Personally Identifiable Information 
PMEF—Primary Mission Essential Function 
POC—Point of Contact 
PWS—Performance Work Statement 
RM—Risk management 
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force 
SecDef—Secretary of Defense 
SFSWC—Space Force Service Watch Cell 
TDY—Temporary Duty Travel 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USAFE-AFRICA—United States Air Forces Europe –Air Forces Africa 
28 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
USecAF—Under Secretary of the Air Force 
USSF—U.S. Space Force 
WPS—Wireless Priority Service 
Office symbols 
AF/A1—The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services 
AF/A1P—Director of Military Force Management 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A3O—Director of Operations 
AF/A3OB—Air Force Mission Assurance COOP Branch 
AF/A3T—Director of Readiness and Training 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection 
AF/A4C—Director of Civil Engineers 
AF/A4L—Director of Logistics 
AF/A4P—Director of Resource Integration 
AF/A4S—Director of Security Forces 
AF/A5/7—Air Force Futures 
AF/A5R—Director of Operational Capability Requirements 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
AF/A8X—Director of Strategic Plans 
AF/A9—Director of Studies and Analysis 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
AF/CC—Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
AF/CCC—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force 
AF/CV—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
AF/DA3—Assistant DCS, Operations 
AF/DS—Air Force Director of Staff 
AF/HC—Chief of Chaplains 
AF/HO—Director of Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs 
AF/JA—Judge Advocate General 
AF/RE—Chief of Air Force Reserve 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
29 
AF/SE—Chief of Safety 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
AF/TE—Director of Test and Evaluation 
AFOG/CC—Commander, Air Force Operations Group 
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force 
CMSSF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force 
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force 
CSO—Chief of Space Operations 
NGB/CF—Director, Air National Guard 
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force 
SAF/AAC—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force COOP 
SAF/AG—Auditor General of the Air Force 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
SAF/CN—Chief Information Officer for DAF 
SAF/DS—Secretary of the Air Force Director of Staff 
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
SAF/GC—General Counsel 
SAF/IA—Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs 
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics 
SAF/IG—Inspector General of the Department of the Air Force 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SAF/OS—Secretary of the Air Force 
SAF/SQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration 
SAF/US—Under Secretary of the Air Force 
SF/COO—Space Force Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Operations, Cyber, and Nuclear 
SF/COO/O—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Operations, Cyber, and Nuclear 
SF/CTIO—Chief Technology and Innovation Officer for the Space Force 
SF/DS—Space Force Director of Staff 
SF/S1—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital 
SF/S2—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence 
SF/S5/8—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Strategy, Plans, Programs, Requirements, and 
Analysis 
VCSAF—Vice Chief of the Air Force 
30 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
VCSO—Vice Chief of Space Operations 
Terms 
Department of the—Air Force Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC Key Personnel Locator  
This KPL is a web-based application hosted on the SIPRNET and is designed to maintain the 
current location, status, and relevant contact information of the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/CC 
Commanders. Travel itineraries and other relevant scheduling information can be uploaded to the 
system as additional references and attachments. 
Antiterrorism (AT)—Defensive measures used to reduce the vulnerability of individuals and 
property to terrorist acts, to include limited response and containment by local military and civilian 
forces. AT is one element of Force Protection. 
Command and Control—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated 
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command 
and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, 
communications, facilities and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, 
coordinating and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission. 
Command Center—A facility from which a commander and his or her representatives’ direct 
operations and control forces. It is organized to gather, process, analyze, display, and disseminate 
planning and operational data and perform related tasks. 
Continuity—An uninterrupted ability to provide services and support, while maintaining 
organizational viability, before, during and after an event. 
Continuity of Government—A coordinated effort within each branch of Government (e.g., the 
Federal Government’s Executive Branch) to ensure that National Essential Functions (NEFs) 
continue to be performed during a catastrophic emergency. Continuity of Government is dependent 
on effective continuity of operations plans and capabilities. DoD Continuity of Government 
activities involve ensuring continuity of DoD MEFs through plans and procedures governing 
succession to office, emergency delegations of authority (where permissible and in accordance 
with applicable law); the safekeeping of vital resources, facilities and records; the improvisation 
or emergency acquisition of vital resources necessary for the performance of MEFs; and the 
capability to relocate essential personnel and functions to and sustain performance of MEFs at, 
alternate work site(s) until normal operations can be resumed. 
Continuity of Operations (COOP)—An effort within individual organizations to ensure they can 
continue to perform their essential functions during a wide range of emergencies, including 
localized acts of nature, accidents, and technological or attack related emergencies. COOP 
involves plans and capabilities covering the same functional objectives of Continuity of 
Government, must be maintained at a high level of readiness and be capable of implementation 
both with and without warning. COOP is not only an integral part of Continuity of Government 
and Enduring Constitutional Government but is simply "good business practice" - part of the 
Department of Defense's fundamental mission as a responsible and reliable public institution. 
Crisis—An incident or situation involving a threat to the United States, its territories, citizens, 
military forces, possessions or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such 
diplomatic, economic, political or military importance that commitment of U.S. military forces 
and resources is contemplated to achieve national objectives. 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
31 
Critical Asset Risk Management (CARM) Program—USAF CARM is a mission-focused, 
mission assurance, risk management program. The goal is to assure availability of 
assets/infrastructure critical to Combatant Command and DAF missions. These include both 
operational and Title 10 missions and capabilities. The Program identifies critical assets inside and 
outside the fence line, mission “impact” caused by critical asset loss/degradation and focuses on 
theater/global impact vs. local impact. It supports RM by identifying risk to the asset and impact 
to the mission. 
Designated Alternate—The individual appointed by the MAJCOM and FLDCOM Commander 
or HAF 2-Letter Principal to act for the Commander/Principal in administrative and operational 
matters while the Commander/Principal is absent from their place of duty. This is not the same as 
designating a successor nor does the MAJCOM and FLDCOM Commander transfer command. 
Devolution—The capability to transfer statutory authority and/or responsibility for essential 
functions from an agency’s primary operating staff and facilities to other another designated staff 
and one or more facilities for the purpose of sustaining essential functions. i.e., A devolution site 
is located outside the primary region, and is capable of assuming the statutory and legal authority 
and responsibilities of the primary operating staff and facilities to sustain essential functions when 
necessary. 
Essential Records—Records essential to the continued functioning or reconstitution of an 
organization during and after an emergency and also those records essential to protecting the rights 
and interests of that organization and of the individuals directly affected by its activities. Include 
both emergency-operating and rights-and-interests records. Essential records considerations are 
part of an agency’s records disaster prevention and recovery program. 
Force Protection—Preventative measures taken to mitigate hostile actions against Department of 
Defense personnel (to include family members), resources, facilities and critical information. 
Headquarters of the Department of the Air Force (HAF)—Represents the executive part of the 
DAF consisting of the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (known as the Secretariat), Air 
Staff, and the Office of the Chief of Space Operations (known as the Space Staff). 
Information Assurance—Information operations that protect and defend information and 
information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality and 
non-repudiation. This includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating 
protection, detection and reaction capabilities. 
Mission Assurance—A process to protect or ensure the continued function and resilience of 
capabilities and assets, including personnel, equipment, facilities, networks, information and 
information systems, infrastructure, and supply chains, critical to the execution of DoD mission-
essential functions in any operating environment or condition. 
Mission Essential Functions (MEF)—functions that organizations must continue throughout or 
resume rapidly after a disruption of normal activities to achieve DoD Component missions or 
responsibilities. Failure to perform or sustain these functions would significantly impact DoD 
ability to provide vital services or exercise authority, direction and control. 
 
 
32 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
National Capital Region (NCR)—The geographic area located within the boundaries of the 
District of Columbia; Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties in the State of Maryland; 
Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun and Prince William Counties and the Cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, 
Falls Church, Manassas and Manassas Park in the Commonwealth of Virginia; and all cities and 
other units of government within the geographic areas of such District, Counties and Cities. 
National Essential Function (NEF)—A subset of Government Functions that are necessary to 
lead and sustain the Nation during catastrophic emergency and that, therefore, must be supported 
through Continuity of Operations and Continuity of Government capabilities. 
Non-Essential Functions—Organizations can suspend non-essential functions for up to 30 days 
without impacting the organization’s mission and not significantly impact DoD’s ability to provide 
vital services or exercise authority, direction, and control. 
Primary Mission Essential Functions (PMEF)—Those Government Functions that must be 
performed to support or implement the performance of NEFs before, during and in the aftermath 
of an emergency. These functions must directly support the NEFs and must be submitted/approved 
by OSD. 
Principal—The term used when referring to a particular commander or key leader in a general 
term. 
Program Manager (PM)—The individual within the office of primary responsibility that directly 
implements the overall COOP program. The PM is typically assigned at a higher organizational 
level such as the HAF, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU or Wing/Delta/Unit HQ, and has an 
understanding of the organization’s mission and functions. 
Reconstitution—The rebuilding of an organization by relocating selected personnel from 
subordinate organizations to a designated location to assume the mission essential functions 
performed by the higher-level organization. 
Relocation Site—The site selected by an organization that is capable of supporting the logistics 
and communications necessary to continue an organization’s mission essential functions. 
Risk Management (RM)—A decision-making process to systematically evaluate possible 
courses of action, identify risks and benefits, and determine the best course of action for any given 
situation. RM enables commanders, functional managers, supervisors, and individuals to 
maximize capabilities while limiting risks through application of a simple, systematic process 
appropriate for all personnel and functions in both on- and off-duty situations. Appropriate use of 
RM increases an organization’s and individual’s ability to safely and effectively accomplish their 
mission/activity while preserving lives and precious resources. 
Telework—A work flexibility arrangement under which an employee performs the duties and 
responsibilities of his or her position, and other authorized activities, from an approved worksite 
other than the location from which the employee would otherwise work. 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
33 
Attachment 2 
NATIONAL ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS (NEF), PRIMARY MISSION ESSENTIAL 
FUNCTIONS (PMEF) AND MISSION ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS (MEF) 
A2.1.  Essential Functions.  Essential Functions refer to those functions that must continue in a 
continuity activation whether the functions are NEFs, PMEFs, MEFs or Essential Supporting 
Activities. 
A2.2.  NEF.  The eight NEFs are a subset of Government Functions that are necessary to lead and 
sustain the Nation during a catastrophic emergency. They are the primary focus of the Federal 
Government’s leadership during and in the aftermath of an emergency and are supported through 
Continuity of Government and Continuity of Operations capabilities. More detailed information 
can be found in National Security Presidential Directive (NSPD) 51/Homeland Security 
Presidential Directive (HSPD) 20, National Continuity Policy. 
A2.2.1.  Continuity of Government is the coordinated effort within the Federal Government’s 
executive branch to ensure that National Essential Functions continue to be performed during 
a catastrophic emergency. 
A2.2.2.  Continuity of Operations means the efforts within individual executive departments 
and agencies to ensure that Primary Mission Essential Functions continue to be performed 
during a wide range of emergencies, including localized acts of nature, accidents, and 
technological or attack-related emergencies. 
Table A2.1.  National Essential Functions. 
PRIORITY BRIEF NARRATIVE 
TIME ASSOCIATION 
NEF 1 
Preserve Constitutional Government 
- 
PMEF 1, 5 
NEF 2 
Visible Leadership (Maintain 
Trust/Confidence) 
- 
PMEF 4 
NEF 3 
Defend the Constitution (Prevent Attacks) 
- 
PMEF 1, 2, 3 & 4 
NEF 4 
Manage Foreign Relations (Maintain/Foster) 
- 
PMEF 4 
NEF 5 
Protect the Homeland Against Threats 
- 
PMEF 1, 2 & 3 
NEF 6 
Rapid Emergency Response (Attack/Disaster) 
- 
PMEF 1, 5 
NEF 7 
Maintain Stable Economy 
(Protect/Confidence) 
- 
- 
NEF 8 
Critical Gov Services (Health/Safety/Welfare) - 
- 
A2.3.  PMEF.  The DoD identified five Primary Mission Essential Functions that must continue 
uninterrupted before, during, and in the aftermath of an emergency. These PMEFs: 
A2.3.1.  Directly support execution of a NEF (e.g., ensures protection, viability of and support 
to the President of the United States’ and/or the Vice President of the United States’ ability to 
lead/direct the nation). 
A2.3.2.  Support critical functions (e.g., provides forces to combatant commanders, command 
and control, and communications to wings/deltas/unit installations and interdiction attacks). 
34 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
A2.3.3.  Provide support to outside DoD agencies (e.g., disaster type emergency management 
response). 
Table A2.2.  DoD Primary Mission Essential Functions. 
PRIORITY BRIEF NARRATIVE 
TIME ASSOCIATION 
PMEF 1 
Formulate National Defense Policy 
0 Hrs 
NEF 1, 3, 5 & 6 
PMEF 2 
Protect and Defend the Country 
0 Hrs 
NEF 3, 4 & 5 
PMEF 3 
Maintain Worldwide Situational Awareness 
0 Hrs 
NEF 3 & 5 
PMEF 4 
Promote National Security 
0 Hrs 
NEF 2, 3 & 4 
PMEF 5 
Conduct Domestic Emergency Response 
0 Hrs 
NEF 1 & 6 
A2.4.  DAF MEFs.  There are six DAF MEFs. All support DoD PMEFs and must be performed 
without interruption. 
Table A2.3.  DAF Mission Essential Functions. 
PRIORITY BRIEF NARRATIVE 
TIME ASSOCIATION 
DAF MEF 1 Support the CSAF and CSO as a Member of the 
JCS 
0 Hrs 
PMEF 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
DAF MEF 2 Maintain Continuous Connectivity w/DoD 
Leaders 
0 Hrs 
PMEF 1, 2, 3, 5 
DAF MEF 3 Provide Situational Awareness and Monitoring 0 Hrs 
PMEF 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
DAF MEF 4 Prepare and Provide Forces 
0 Hrs 
PMEF 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
DAF MEF 5 Execute Force Direction & Management (Title 
10) 
0 Hrs 
PMEF 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
DAF MEF 6 Support Effective and Timely Decision Making 0 Hrs 
PMEF 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
A2.4.1.  DAF MEF 1.  Support the CSAF and CSO as members of the Joint Staff. Title 10 
United States Code (USC) § 151, Joint Chiefs of Staff: composition; functions, designates the 
CSAF and CSO as members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, providing advice to the President and 
the Secretary of Defense. 
A2.4.2.  DAF MEF 2.  Maintain continuous connectivity between the SecAF and the SecDef, 
CSAF, and CSO with the CJCS and other members of the JCS and between SecAF, CSAF and 
CSO through the MAJCOM, FLDCOM and the Department of the Air Force. 
A2.4.3.  DAF MEF 3.  Provide timely and reliable situational awareness and monitoring on 
worldwide DAF operations and issues impacting operations. 
A2.4.4.  DAF MEF 4.  Prepare and provide forces to the Combatant Commanders for the 
conduct of prompt and sustained operations fulfilling both current and near-term operational 
and planning requirements in line with national objectives and military strategy. 
A2.4.5.  DAF MEF 5.  Execute Title 10 of the US Code (Title 10 USC D – Air Force, §§ 9011 
- 9842) requirements to organize, train and equip forces for joint operations and other duties. 
A2.4.6.  DAF MEF 6.  Support effective and timely SecAF, CSAF and CSO decision-making. 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
35 
Attachment 3 
DEVELOPING MISSION ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS 
A3.1.  Mission Essential Functions.  Mission Essential Functions (MEF) are those functions that 
organizations must continue throughout or resume rapidly after a disruption of normal activities 
and constitute the minimum vital and critical functions required to be provided and continued. 
(T-0) MEFs are the basis for sustained continuity of operations and lack thereof constitutes mission 
failure. Time is an important MEF consideration. MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, ANG Readiness 
Center, Wing/Delta/Unit etc., MEFs should be relevant to DAF MEFs and to the supported 
Combatant Commanders. 
A3.2.  Timelines.  MEF timelines are the time within which a MEF must be resumed. Individual 
MEF criticality is time dependent. MEF identification and implementation needs to consider time- 
criticality to help balance implementation of MEFs at the time of need and competing resource 
constraints. 
A3.2.1.  Essential DoD Component MEFs must be performed continuously or resumed within 
12 hours of an event and maintained up to 30 days after an event or until normal operations 
can be resumed. 
A3.2.2.  Because of their importance, some MEFs cannot be suspended without critical 
negative impact. Other MEFs, although vital, may allow temporary suspension (hours, days). 
In the same way an owning organization is responsible for RM and MEF creation, MEF time 
criticality is also determined by the owning organization. 
A3.3.  Sources.  MEFs can be derived from, but not limited to, the following sources: DoD 
directive or instruction, Service policy directives or instruction, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU 
Mission Directives, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU or locally developed instructions, Combatant 
Commanders’ plans, e.g., concept plans (CONPLAN), operational plan (OPLAN), and/or tasks 
assigned through the Defense Readiness and Reporting System (DRRS) in support of Combatant 
Commanders or HAF. MEFs should provide overarching answers to questions, such as, “what 
function or service does this organization provide to the DAF and/or DoD?” 
A3.4.  Mission Essential Tasks.  Mission Essential Tasks do not readily equate to MEFs. 
Functions should generally describe an activity required to achieve a desired goal, mission or 
organizational responsibility. The responsibility has been designated or delegated by higher 
authority. Tasks usually are more specific and may generally contribute to the performance of a 
function. An example of a MEF may be, “Ensure DAF forces are continuously available to conduct 
CONUS air superiority.” This function implies a series of tasks, some which may not be readily 
defined in readiness reporting systems. Response times should be derived from higher 
headquarters. 
A3.5.  Interdependencies.  Identify interdependencies necessary to support MEF execution. 
Interdependencies can be within and/or outside an organization or installation. Additionally, break 
the MEF into subordinate elements or tasks necessary to accomplish the function. For example, an 
organization may be tasked to launch F-22s to assist in maintaining air superiority. This task 
requires aircraft with crews and maintainers, logistics, security and extensive mission support. A 
headquarters staff function may need to provide situational awareness and analysis of the data for 
a commander in support of decision-making. 
36 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
A3.6.  Subordinate Elements.  Identify the subordinate elements or tasks/services necessary to 
execute the function. Some additional supporting elements may include situational awareness, 
computer and information support staff and administrative management. Identify any service, 
equipment, leaders and staff, facilities, communication capability, data/information or other 
supporting infrastructure and agencies necessary to perform the function. Areas to consider, but 
not limited to, include command and control, command decisions and strategies, crisis 
communications (including alerts and notifications), crisis data storage, retrieval and security, 
legal obligations, fiscal and contractual obligations and personnel. 
A3.7.  MEF Impacts.  Identify the impact and consequences over time should these functions not 
be performed. This should establish the acceptable degree of interruption in the MEF execution 
during a crisis. 
A3.7.1.  Determine what higher order MEF and/or organization this function supports. 
A3.7.2.  Assess the impact and consequences over time if these functions fail. 
A3.7.3.  Assess the Maximum Tolerable Downtime (MTD) a MEF can be disrupted or 
degraded without disruption or degradation. 
A3.7.4.  Assess the minimum functional level that must be achieved upon resumption. 
A3.7.5.  Assess the length of time normal functional levels must be achieved. 
A3.7.6.  Contact the organizations which the function supports for guidance in determining the 
acceptable degree of interruption. For example, contact Wing/Delta/Unit Plans office for 
response requirements outlined in OPLANS. MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and DRUs should provide 
guidance to subordinate organizations on OPLAN response requirements. 
A3.8.  Organizational MEFs.  Prioritize organizational MEFs based on the information above. 
A3.9.  Higher HQ MEFs.  Identify the higher headquarters MEFs this organization’s MEF 
supports. 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
37 
Attachment 4 
DAF UNIT CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS (COOP) PLAN TEMPLATE 
A4.1.  Unit COOP Plan.  This template serves as a guide for developing organizational COOP 
Plans. For planning purposes template can be found on the Air Force COOP SharePoint™ Page at 
https://usaf.dps.mil/:f:/t/A3OB-
COOP/EhwNBo_2lkVIjvPUEShpbL4BiU6dRTz64D9Gmh6CKcecjA?e=K6DzU 
Note: 
COOP Plans will be classified in accordance with the Department of Defense Continuity Security 
Classification Guide. 
 
38 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
Attachment 5 
KPL TASKED ORGANIZATIONS 
A5.1.  HAF Key Personnel.  Table A5.1 lists HAF Key Personnel who must ensure their location, 
status, and itineraries (if applicable) are current and up to date in their respective directorates to 
the HAF KPL. The order of listing does not imply order of precedence or seniority. Administrative 
personnel in the Principal’s office will update their respective KPL: either the HAF KPL or DAF 
Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL following the individual KPL policies. Note: Those 
Principal’s designated with an asterisk (*) will have their status updated by their respective 
Command Center. 
Table A5.1.  HAF Key Personnel. 
The Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/OS) 
The Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US) 
Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) 
The Auditor General of the Air Force (SAF/AG) 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (SAF/AQ) 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ) 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management & Comptroller (SAF/FM) 
Chief Information Officer for the Department of the Air Force (SAF/CN) 
General Counsel (SAF/GC) 
Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) 
Assistant Secretary of Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE) 
Inspector General of the Department of the Air Force (SAF/IG) 
Assistant Secretary of Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) 
Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CC) 
Chief of Space Operations (CSO) 
Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CV) 
Vice Chief of Space Operations (VCSO) 
Secretary of the Air Force Director of Staff (SAF/DS) 
Air Force Director of Staff (AF/DS) 
Space Force Director of Staff (SF/DS) 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
39 
Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (AF/CCC) 
Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force (CMSSF) 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital (SF/S1) 
Director of Military Force Management (AF/A1P) 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6) 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2) 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) 
Assistant DCS, Operations (AF/DA3) 
Director of Current Operations (AF/A3O) 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Operations, Cyber, and Nuclear (SF/COO) 
Director of Readiness and Training (AF/A3T) 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) 
Director of Civil Engineers (AF/A4C) 
Director of Logistics (AF/A4L) 
Director of Resource Integration (AF/A4P) 
Director of Security Forces (AF/A4S) 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7) 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Strategy, Plans, Programs, Requirements, and Analysis 
(SF/S5/8) 
Director of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R) 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6) 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) 
Director of Strategic Plans (AF/A8X) 
Director of Studies and Analysis (AF/A9) 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) 
Chief of Chaplains (AF/HC) 
40 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
Director of Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs (AF/HO) 
The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) 
* Director, Air National Guard (NGB/CF) 
* Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) 
Chief of Safety (AF/SE) 
The Surgeon General (AF/SG) 
Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) 
Commander, Air Force Operations Group (AFOG/CC) 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Operations, Cyber, and Nuclear (SF/COO/O) 
Chief Technology and Innovation Officer for the Space Force (SF/CTIO) 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
41 
Attachment 6 
DAF TOP 8 AND MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL AND AVAILABILITY REPORTING 
A6.1.  DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM  KPL Reporting. The DAF Top 8 and 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL will be updated using the following procedures: 
A6.1.1.  Update Time. 
A6.1.1.1.  DAF Key Personnel status will be updated by the responsible offices no later 
than 0800 Eastern Time, for that duty day. 
A6.1.1.2.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM 
Commander 
status 
will 
be 
updated 
by 
MAJCOM/FLDCOM Command Centers daily no earlier than 0500Z and no later than 
0700Z. 
Table A6.1.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM. 
Air Combat Command (ACC) 
Air Education and Training Command (AETC) 
Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) 
Air Force Material Command (AFMC) 
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) 
Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) 
Air Mobility Command (AMC) 
Air National Guard (ANG) 
Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) 
US Air Forces Europe – Air Forces Africa (USAFE-AFRICA) 
Space Operations Command (SpOC) 
Space Systems Command (SSC) 
Space Training and Readiness Command (STARCOM) 
A6.1.2.  Update Procedures. Updating the Principal’s status include either No Change or 
Changes procedures. 
A6.1.2.1.  No Change. If there are no changes from the previous status (e.g., the Principal 
is still on station and available; or the Principal is still TDY or on leave), verify and click 
save, to ensure the status shows verify as of the current duty day. 
A6.1.2.2.  Changes. If there are changes to the Principal’s status the following measures 
must be taken to update the DAF Top 8 and MAJCOM/FLDCOM/CC KPL: 
42 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
A6.1.2.2.1.  Click on the “Jump to” icon/shield on the top of the page for the required 
office and perform updates as follows: 
A6.1.2.2.2.  Update the “Status” box by including “Leave, TDY or On Station”. 
A6.1.2.2.3.  Update the “Location” box based on the location of the principal when on-
station, TDY or on leave. 
A6.1.2.2.4.  Update the “TDY/Leave Dates” box with the departure and return of the 
principal. 
A6.1.2.2.5.  If a Commander’s Availability Report (CAR) is available, select “Attach 
File” on the top of the update screen and attach the file. Do not include entire itinerary 
in any of the other fields. 
A6.1.2.2.6.  Update the “Successor” box by inputting or removing the name, rank, 
contact number and dates in which the individual will be acting for the Principal. 
A6.1.2.2.7.  When the MAJCOM/FLDCOM Commander is not designating a 
successor, insert the phrase, “No Designated Alternate” in the successor box. 
 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
43 
Figure A6.1.  Commander’s Availability Report (CAR). 
CLASSIFICATION 
 
1. RANK AND NAME OF MAJCOM/FLDCOM COMMANDER OR HAF KEY 
PERSONNEL 
 
2. PURPOSE: (EXPLANATION OF ABSENCE, TDY OR LEAVE, ETC) 
 
3. ITINERARY: 
 
ARRIVAL TIME  
 
LOCATION   
DEPARTURE TIME 
DDHHMMMONYY  
DESTINATION  
DDHHMMMONYY 
 
4. DESIGNATED ALTERNATE: RANK AND NAME, DUTY TITLE, COMMERCIAL 
AND DSN PHONE NUMBER 
 
5. CONTACT INFORMATION: CONTACT INFO FOR THE MAJCOM/FLDCOM 
COMMAND CENTER OR HAF STAFF ORGANIZATION 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
1. GEN JOHN DOE 
 
2. TDY, WASHINGTON, DC TO ATTEND COMMANDERS CONFERENCE 
 
3. ITINERARY 
 
ARRIVAL TIME  
 
LOCATION   
DEPARTURE TIME 
 
N/A   
 
 
HICKAM AFB, HI  301800ZMAY2009 
310230ZMAY2009   
WASHINGTON, DC  041700ZJUN2009 
 
050500ZJUN2009  
 
HICKAM AFB, HI  N/A 
 
4. DESIGNATED ALTERNATE: MAJ GEN JOHN PUBLIC, VICE COMMANDER, 808-
123- 4567, DSN 315-449-4567 
 
5. COMMAND CENTER CONTACT INFORMATION: 808-123-6789, DSN 315-449- 6789. 
 
Note 1: Italicized items are provided by the report originator 
Note 2: GMT (Z) will be used for all times in Item 3 and identify the time using the “Z” 
designator. 
 
 
 
44 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
A6.2.  Commander’s Availability Report.  The CAR is used by DAF and MAJCOM/FLDCOM 
Centers to report on the absence, itinerary, designated alternate (if one is identified), and contact 
information when key personnel will be absent for TDY and/or leave. In addition to providing the 
general information on KPLs, the CAR will be used to provide the additional detail needed to 
allow the SecAF and CSAF/CSO to maintain command and control of forces and run the DAF. 
The CAR will be attached to DAF Key Personnel (as designated in Table A6.2.), MAJCOM and 
FLDCOM Commander’s (as designated in Table A6.1) profiles outlining his/her itinerary during 
the period of absence. See Figure A6.1 for template and example. 
A6.3.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM Commander and Alternates Concurrent Absences.  Keep 
MAJCOM and FLDCOM Commander concurrent absences to an absolute minimum. Notify 
AF/CV by message at least three duty days before the concurrent absences, providing itineraries 
and specific reasons. Address message to the AF/CV Workflow and the AFSWC. This message 
will include the name and duty phone of the designated alternate. This person must also have full 
authority to act for the commander and must be able to reach the commander by telephone, if 
necessary. 
A6.4.  Key Personnel Notifications.  In addition to non-availability reporting in the KPL, the 
staffs for the individuals listed in Table A6.2 will submit travel itineraries to the agencies 
indicated. Tracking agency contact information for the agencies is located in Table A6.3. 
Table A6.2.  DAF Key Personnel Itinerary Reporting Requirements. 
 
 
DAF Key Leader 
 
Air Force Service 
Watch Cell 
(AFSWC) 
National Military 
Command Center 
(NMCC) 
Office of the 
Secretary of 
Defense Executive 
Support Center 
(OSD-ESC) 
SAF/OS 
X 
 
X 
SAF/US 
X 
 
X 
CSAF 
X 
X 
 
VCSAF 
X 
X 
 
AF/DS 
X 
 
 
CMSAF 
X 
 
 
CSO 
X 
X 
 
VCSO 
X 
X 
 
 
 
 
 
DAFI10-208  12 MAY 2023 
45 
Table A6.3.  Tracking Agency Contact Information. 
AGENCY 
UNCLAS PHONE SECURE PHONE 
SECURE EMAIL 
AFSWC 
703-697-6103 
302-221-0089 
usaf.pentagon.af-a3-
5.mbx.af-a3-5-afwatch-
mbx@mail.smil.mil  
NMCC 
703-697-6340 
703-697-6340 
opsea@js.pentagon.smil.mil 
SFSWC  
703-693-4003  
302-221-4384 
usaf.pentagon.haf.mbx.ussf-
s3-space-force-
watch@mail.smil.mil  
OSD-ESC 
Use established courier procedures 
A6.5.  Minimize.  Submission of CAR will not be affected by the imposition of MINIMIZE. 
A6.6.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM 
Commander’s 
Availability 
Checks.  MAJCOM/FLDCOM 
Commanders or their designated alternate must be telephonically available to the AFSWC within 
fifteen (15) minutes of the AFSWC initial attempt to make contact. Commanders who do not 
designate an alternate while they are on leave or TDY are responsible for ensuring this line of 
communication remains available throughout their absence from their duty location. 
 
