BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 10-3001 
22 DECEMBER 2020 
Operations 
REINTEGRATION 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3S 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI 10-3001, 21 April 2009 
Certified by: AF/A3S  
(Col James P. Hughes) 
Pages: 10 
 
 
This instruction implements Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 10-30, 
Personnel Recovery. This publication applies to all civilian employees of the Department of the 
Air Force and uniformed members of Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National 
Guard, the United States Space Force, and those who are contractually obligated to comply with 
Department of the Air Force publications. This Instruction requires the collection and or 
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United 
States Code (USC) Section 1506, Personnel Files. The applicable System of Records Notice(s) 
INGB 
004 
Joint 
Services 
Support 
System 
is 
available 
at: 
https://dpcld.defense.gov/privacy/SORNS.aspx. Ensure all records generated as a result of 
processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-332, Records 
Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the 
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information 
Management System. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the 
office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of 
command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be 
routed to the OPR of this publication prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive 
wing or unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-
3”) number following the compliance statement. See Department of the Air Force Instruction 
(DAFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities 
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to 
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority or, alternately, to the requestor’s commander for 
non-tiered compliance items. 
2 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed. Major 
changes include deletion of numerous chapters which, if needed, should be consolidated in an 
Air Force Manual. 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
3 
Chapter 1 
REINTEGRATION 
1.1.  Overview.  This instruction establishes requirements and assigns responsibilities for 
reintegrating recovered Department of the Air Force personnel who were isolated and required to 
survive, evade, resist, or escape. It provides procedures for reception and processing of returnees. 
Reintegration includes medical and psychological evaluation and treatment, thorough 
intelligence and survival, evasion, resistance, and escape (SERE) debrief of the entire event, 
reunification with, and support to the primary family, religious support, legal support, public 
affairs support, casualty affairs support, and security of returnees and their families. The task 
provides for the health and welfare of returnees with the ultimate goal of effective and efficient 
return to duty. The reintegration process consists of three distinct phases with flexible timelines, 
dependent on the specific needs of the recovered personnel and the operational mission. These 
three distinct phases are: I, II, and III. 
1.1.1.  Phase I (Combatant Command): This phase begins immediately following the 
recovered personnel’s return to friendly control. 
1.1.2.  Phase II (Combatant Command): Phase II begins when the recovered personnel 
arrives at a theater transition location. 
1.1.3.  Phase III (Service): Phase III is Service-level reintegration and begins when the 
commander determines further reintegration is required and the returnee transfers from the 
Combatant Command to Service control. 
4 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
Chapter 2 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  Responsibilities.  The Department of the Air Force is responsible for Phase III reintegration 
of Department of the Air Force military members, Department of Defense (DoD) civilians, or 
other designated personnel in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 
3002.03, DoD Personnel Recovery – Reintegration of Recovered Personnel. 
2.1.1.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) designates the Director of Air Force 
Special Warfare, AF/A3S as the OPR for Department of the Air Force reintegration. AF/A3S 
will provide instructions and guidance for reintegration synchronous with the combatant 
command’s reintegration plans. 
2.1.2.  The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs (SAF/PA) shall: 
2.1.2.1.  Develop, coordinate, and oversee the implementation of public affairs plans and 
guidance for all activities regarding reintegration. 
2.1.2.2.  Coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs for any 
public release of information on reintegration cases. 
2.1.2.3.  Provide public affairs guidance and instructions to returnees and their families in 
accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs policies. 
2.1.2.4.  Provide oversight of all official Department of the Air Force statements, 
interviews, and releases issued to media and the public. 
2.1.3.  The Deputy Chief of Staff/Manpower, Personnel & Services (AF/A1) is responsible 
for all contact with and assistance to family and for military and civilian personnel matters 
applicable to processing Department of the Air Force returnees. The office of primary 
responsibility within AF/A1 is the Missing Persons Branch at Air Force Personnel Center, 
Joint Base San Antonio – Randolph AFB (AFPC/DPFCM). AFPC/DPFCM will: 
2.1.3.1.  Act as the initial Department of the Air Force point of contact with isolated 
personnel’s family. 
2.1.3.2.  Establish procedures for promptly notifying family when personnel are returned 
to U.S. Government control and for keeping the families of isolated personnel advised of 
processing activities and duty status. 
2.1.3.3.  Provide advisors to family; to include anticipated reintegration procedures, 
arrival of returnees, and processing schedules. 
2.1.3.4.  Ensure personnel processing files are current and readily available for use in 
processing returned personnel. 
2.1.4.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG), in coordination with AF/A3, shall provide 
overall guidance and instruction on medical aspects of the reintegration process and augment 
the medical facilities at designated locations, as required, to support reintegration. 
2.1.5.  Coordinate with USSF (SF/S1) as required for USSF assigned returnees. 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
5 
2.2.  All Major Commands and Component-Numbered Air Forces, or Space Force 
equivalent will: 
2.2.1.  Establish and designate a command personnel recovery OPR to coordinate with 
AF/A3, or designated OPR, and lead command on implementation of applicable personnel 
recovery policy and training of commanders and staffs and potential isolated personnel, in 
accordance with DAFPD 10-30. The command personnel recovery OPR is responsible for 
reintegration and will provide assistance to the reintegration process as required. Note: 
DAFPD 10-30 designates Air Combat Command (ACC) as the lead command for personnel 
recovery. 
2.2.2.  Support Phase III reintegration of assigned personnel by: 
2.2.2.1.  Assembling a reintegration team as needed. The Phase III reintegration team will 
consist, at a minimum, of an O-6 designated reintegration team chief to serve as the 
overall coordinator of reintegration activities, SERE debriefer, intelligence debriefer, 
SERE psychologist, public affairs representative, casualty affairs representative, Judge 
Advocate, chaplain, and appropriate medical personnel. Others may be required as 
situation dictates. 
2.2.2.2.  Team Chief, SERE debriefer, SERE psychologist, intelligence debriefer, and 
other augmentees may be requested from ACC or other major commands (MAJCOMs) 
with the requisite capability. Submit requests to AF/A3S. 
2.2.2.3.  Ensuring all reintegration team members receive appropriate training for their 
specific duties. 
2.2.2.4.  Ensuring intelligence and SERE debriefing of returnees. 
2.2.2.5.  To the extent allowed by applicable laws and regulations, funding costs 
associated with the reintegration of the returnees. These costs include travel, billeting, 
medical treatment determined to be necessary, uniforms, and other activities associated 
with the reintegration process. 
2.2.3.  In collaboration with the Defense Health Agency and the commander or director of 
the military medical treatment facility, MAJCOM Surgeon General maintains overall 
responsibility for all medical matters associated with the planning and processing of 
returnees, and will: 
2.2.3.1.  Coordinate medical and SERE psychological treatment as necessary. 
2.2.3.2.  Augment medical treatment facilities during returnee processing. 
2.2.4.  Command Chaplains are responsible for ensuring sufficient chaplains and religious 
affairs airmen are available to meet the spiritual needs of returnees and their families. 
2.2.5.  MAJCOM or Field Command Staff Judge Advocate is responsible for ensuring 
sufficient legal personnel are available to advise and provide legal assistance to returnees and 
eligible dependents in accordance with AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice and 
AFI 51-304, Legal Assistance, Notary, Preventive Law, and Tax Programs. 
2.2.5.1.  Provide eligible returnees and the service reintegration team with legal 
counseling, to include rights under 10 U.S.C. §§ 801-946a, benefits, and assistance on 
matters pertaining to personal legal issues and/or concerns. 
6 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
2.2.5.2.  Determine if family members are eligible for similar counseling and, if not, shall 
assist in obtaining such legal services. 
2.3.  As the lead command for personnel recovery, ACC will: 
2.3.1.  Be prepared to assist and augment other MAJCOM and Field Command reintegration 
teams as required. 
2.3.2.  Ensure processes are in place to identify, assemble, and train personnel to assist and 
augment reintegration team functions. 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
7 
Chapter 3 
GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES 
3.1.  Requirements.  The purpose of reintegration is to gather critical information from 
recovered personnel while protecting their health and welfare. This allows the return of the 
recovered personnel, physically and emotionally healthy, to duty as expeditiously as possible. 
The Department of the Air Force must be prepared to conduct Phase III reintegration of 
personnel immediately following an isolating event. (T-0). 
3.2.  Duration.  Department of the Air Force military personnel will undergo reintegration until 
released by the responsible commander and after recommendation by the reintegration team 
chief. (T-0). 
3.2.1.  Department of the Air Force civilians will undergo reintegration in accordance with 
DoDI 3002.03. (T-0). 
3.2.2.  Reintegration is complete when the member’s commander approves the reintegration 
team chief’s recommendation for return to the Department of the Air Force for duty status 
determination. Status determination may include full duty status, further medical care, 
discharge, etc. A determination that reintegration is complete may be made during any phase 
of the process. 
3.3.  Debriefing Priority.  Medical triage and SERE psychological assessment of the recovered 
personnel should occur prior to any debriefings when the situation, timing, and environment 
allows. Intelligence debriefings will be conducted during reintegration of Department of the Air 
Force personnel by qualified intelligence personnel. (T-0). Debriefings to satisfy intelligence, 
operational, investigative, and SERE information requirements must be prioritized by the Team 
Chief and conducted as early as possible and as required. (T-0). 
3.4.  Information and Legal.  In accordance with 10 USC § 1506, members subject to this 
instruction will withhold privileged information from personnel files. Debriefing reports 
provided by a person who is returned to United States control are obtained under a promise of 
confidentiality made for the purpose of ensuring the fullest possible disclosure of information. 
(T-0). 
3.4.1.  In accordance with 10 USC § 1506, members subject to this instruction will withhold 
from personnel files as privileged information, any survival, evasion, resistance, and escape 
debriefing report. Debriefing reports provided by a person who is returned to United States 
control are obtained under a promise of confidentiality made for the purpose of ensuring the 
fullest possible disclosure of information. (T-0). 
3.4.2.  If a debriefing report contains non-derogatory information about the status and 
whereabouts of a missing person other than the source of the debriefing report or about 
unnamed missing persons, the debriefing team will prepare an extract of the non-derogatory 
information. (T-0). 
3.4.2.1.  The debriefing team in coordination with legal counsel will include that extract, 
following a review by the source of the debriefing report, in the personnel file of each 
missing person named in the debriefing report in such a manner as to protect the identity 
of the source providing the information. (T-0). 
8 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
3.4.2.2.  The debriefing team in coordination with AFPC/DPFCM will ensure any 
information contained in the extract of the debriefing report that pertains to unnamed 
missing persons shall be made reasonably accessible to the primary next of kin, members 
of the immediate family, and the previously designated person. (T-0). 
3.4.3.  Whenever withholding a debriefing report, or part of a debriefing report, from a 
personnel file under this subsection, the debriefing team will include a notice that withheld 
information exists in the personal processing file. (T-0). 
3.5.  DoDI Implementation.  The Department of the Air Force will conduct the following 
reintegration tasks in accordance with DoD policy and procedures outlined in DoDI 3002.03. 
3.5.1.  SERE debriefings and their organizational disposition are conducted for the sole 
purpose of garnering lessons learned and to help prevent or prepare for future isolating 
events. 
3.5.2.  The Department of the Air Force will facilitate access as required of other U.S. 
Government and law enforcement organizations to the recovered personnel or information 
and to obtain the necessary evidence for criminal prosecution of the captors. (T-0). 
3.5.3.  When consistent with applicable laws and regulations, the Department of the Air 
Force may provide post-isolation support for non-Department of the Air Force personnel 
following an isolating event. 
3.5.4.  The Department of the Air Force will establish an official representative to contact, 
advise, and maintain communications with the isolated individual’s designated next-of-kin or 
others as necessary. (T-0). 
 
JOSEPH T. GUASTELLA Jr., Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
9 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
10USC § 1506, Personnel Files 
10USC §§ 801-946a, Uniform Code of Military Justice 
DoDI 3002.03, DoD Personnel Recovery – Reintegration of Recovered Personnel, 15 July, 2013 
DAFPD 10-30, Personnel Recovery, 28 August 2018 
DAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
AFI 33-332, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 10 March 2020 
AFI 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 18 January 2019 
AFI 51-304, Legal Assistance, Notary, Preventive Law, and Tax Programs, 22 August 2018 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff/Manpower, Personnel & Services 
AF/A3—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff Operations 
AF/A3S—Air Force Special Warfare Directorate 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFPC/DPFCM—Air Force Personnel Center Missing Persons Branch 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force Instruction 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
SAF/PA—Secretary of the Air Force Public Affairs 
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape 
USC—United States Code 
USSF—United States Space Force 
10 
DAFI10-3001  22 DECEMBER 2020 
 
