BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 17-220 
8 JUNE 2021 
Cyberspace Operations 
SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: AF/A2/6CO 
 
Supersedes: 
AFI 17-220, 16 March 2017 
Certified by: AF/A2/6C  
(Brig Gen Eric DeLange) 
Pages: 17 
 
 
This publication implements Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 17-2, Cyber Warfare 
Operations and is consistent with the guidance established with National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration (NTIA), Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio 
Frequency Management (also known as “Redbook”) and the Joint Staff J6 Military Command, 
Control, Communications, and Computers Executive Board (MC4EB) Frequency Panel.  It 
identifies various levels of responsibilities for Department of the Air Force spectrum management 
and use of the electromagnetic spectrum.  This publication applies to all civilian employees and 
uniformed members of Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, the 
United States Space Force, those who are contractually obligated to comply with Department of 
the Air Force publications, and the Civil Air Patrol when conducting missions as the official Air 
Force Auxiliary.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule which 
is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  Refer recommended 
changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the Air 
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from 
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  This publication may be 
supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the office of primary 
responsibility of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.  The 
authorities to waive wing unit-level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-
0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement.  See Department of the Air Force 
Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities 
2 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
associated with the tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to 
the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the requestor’s commander for 
non-tiered compliance items.  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, 
commercial product, commodity, or service does not imply endorsement by the Department of the 
Air Force.  Compliance with the attachment in this publication is not mandatory. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been substantially revised and needs be completely reviewed.  Significant 
reductions have been made and several chapters and process-oriented areas eliminated.  Guidance 
for those chapters is available in other publications (e.g., NTIA Manual, Department of Defense 
Instructions (DoDI), Department of Defense Directives, and Allied Communications Publications 
(ACP)). 
1.  OVERVIEW. 
1.1.  The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of frequencies of electromagnetic radiation 
extending from zero to infinity, measured in hertz (cycles per second).  The radio frequency 
spectrum is the group of frequency sub-bands within the allocated electromagnetic spectrum 
associated with radio wave propagation between 9 kilohertz and 275 gigahertz.  This 
instruction provides for the Department of the Air Force’s responsibilities in the conduct of 
peacetime electromagnetic spectrum management. 
1.2.  International law, domestic law, and implementing regulations require effective 
management and use of the electromagnetic spectrum.  Within the United States, the 
electromagnetic spectrum is allocated between federal and non-federal users with portions of 
the spectrum being shared as noted in the NTIA Manual national table of allocations.  The 
Department of Commerce’s NTIA Manual regulates federal operations and the Federal 
Communications Commission regulates non-federal operations.  Federal users must utilize 
frequency bands allocated for government or shared use in accordance with NTIA Manual.  
(T-0)  A government frequency assignment is authorized in a non-government allocated 
frequency band, providing the Federal Communications Commission approves the request. 
1.3.  Sovereign nations exercise control over the use of the electromagnetic spectrum within 
their own territory.  This basic consideration of international spectrum management becomes 
extremely important when United States military forces operate abroad.  In nearly all 
circumstances, it is necessary to obtain host nation approval to conduct electromagnetic 
spectrum operations before United States military forces operate any spectrum-dependent 
system in a foreign nation.  Misuse of spectrum resources or unauthorized electromagnetic 
spectrum use within a host nation may be a violation of international treaties, international law, 
or national laws and regulations. Seek assistance from the servicing staff judge advocate with 
understanding international treaties, regulations, and host nation laws, where applicable. 
 
 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
3 
2.  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. 
2.1.  Department of the Air Force Spectrum Operations. 
2.1.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6).  In accordance with the Department of the Air Force Policy 
Directive 17-2, AF/A2/6 provides policy, guidance, resource advocacy and oversight for 
Air Force electromagnetic spectrum management in support of the Department of the Air 
Force mission and retains responsibility for policy, as well as oversight of lead command 
implementation of DoDI 4650.01 and DoDI 8320.05. 
2.1.2.  Director, 
Cyberspace 
Operations 
and 
Warfighter 
Communications 
(AF/A2/6C).  AF/A2/6C is responsible for integrating cyberspace warfare capabilities into 
the joint mission and provides oversight and control for electromagnetic spectrum 
management in support of the Department of the Air Force mission. 
2.1.3.  Chief, 
Department 
of 
the 
Air 
Force 
Spectrum 
Management 
(AF/A2/6CO).  AF/A2/6CO represents the United States Air Force and United States 
Space Force electromagnetic spectrum use at the national and international levels.  
Processes Department of the Air Force spectrum supportability and frequency assignment 
requests through the NTIA for use within the United States and its possessions.  The 
AF/A2/6CO represents the United States Space Force, as a service, at the MC4EB 
Frequency Panel until the United States Space Force has established its spectrum offices.  
AF/A2/6CO will: 
2.1.3.1.  Implement national, international, and joint staff electromagnetic spectrum 
management policy in accordance with the NTIA Manual; International 
Telecommunication Union, Radio Regulations (ITU RR),  DoD, Joint Staff, and 
MC4EB publications.  (T-0) 
2.1.3.2.  Evaluate Department of the Air Force plans for needed electromagnetic 
support per DoDI 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the 
Electromagnetic Spectrum.  (T-0) 
2.1.3.3.  Represent and defend Department of the Air Force electromagnetic technical 
interests in national-level committees, groups, and organizations that address 
electromagnetic spectrum management matters in accordance with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-
0) 
2.1.3.4.  Negotiates at the departmental and national levels to obtain spectrum 
certification, host nation coordination through combatant commands, frequency 
assignments, electromagnetic attack training authorizations.  Participates, as an invited 
member, of the US delegation led by the State Department and NTIA for Satellite 
Bilateral coordination and the World Radiocommunication Conference for the 
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) radio regulation changes.  Obtains ITU 
satellite registration to satisfy the Department of the Air Force’s orbital slots and radio 
frequency requirements for use in the electromagnetic spectrum in accordance with the 
NTIA Manual and ITU RR.  (T-0) 
4 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
2.1.3.5.  Provide spectrum guidance to Department of the Air Force sponsored 
Department of Defense area frequency coordinators in accordance with ACP 190 US 
SUPP-1(D), Guide to Frequency Planning.  (T-0) 
2.1.3.6.  Assist in resolution of interference problems involving the Department of the 
Air Force’s assigned frequencies, per AFI 17-221, Spectrum Interference Resolution 
Program. 
2.1.3.7.  Provide guidance through appropriate command channels on electromagnetic 
spectrum to developers and users of all Department of the Air Force systems that 
require electromagnetic spectrum access or whose performance is influenced by radio 
frequency energy.  This includes communications and information systems, 
electromagnetic warfare operations, test and training, intelligence and weapons 
systems, commercial-off-the-shelf equipment, and any other spectrum-dependent 
systems that rely on the electromagnetic spectrum. 
2.1.3.8.  Assist major and field commands, as requested, to conduct staff assistance 
visits to ensure subordinate units are meeting compliance with national procedures and 
policy for federal spectrum management. 
2.1.3.9.  Evaluate and determine the impact of spectrum-dependent systems on current 
or planned operational use of the electromagnetic spectrum. 
2.1.3.10.  Provide assistance to Department of the Air Force activities requiring Joint 
Spectrum Center services like electromagnetic environmental effects engineering and 
interference resolution. 
2.1.3.11.  Provide curriculum input and support to the formal technical spectrum 
courses when requested by the Joint Staff, representing combatant commands to the 
Air Force Career Functional Manager. 
2.1.3.12.  In accordance with the Department of the Air Force's role as the Combatant 
Command Support Agent, within the United States and its possessions, provide 
spectrum management support to the following:  United States Transportation 
Command, United States Strategic Command, United States Cyber Command, United 
States Central Command, United States Northern Command, and United States Special 
Operations Command IAW Department of Defense Directive 5100.03, Support of the 
Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Unified Command, and ACP 190 US 
SUPP-1(D).  (T-0) 
2.1.3.13.  Develop, coordinate and publish a Department of the Air Force Management 
Internal Control Toolkit checklist in accordance with AFI 90-201, The Air Force 
Inspection System, and respond to comments related to this Department of the Air Force 
Instruction as required. 
2.1.3.14.  Conduct an annual spectrum operations workshop, within funding 
constraints, open to all levels of Department of the Air Force spectrum operations. 
2.1.3.15.  Review each spectrum supportability risk assessment ensuring each required 
assessment component has been accurately completed and presented in accordance 
with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
5 
2.1.4.  Major and Field Command Spectrum Operations Manager.  The manager will: 
2.1.4.1.  Carry out Air Force policy, practices, and procedures for managing the use of 
the electromagnetic spectrum.  (T-1) 
2.1.4.2.  Ensure compliance with the NTIA frequency assignment review program as 
required by NTIA Manual, Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.1.4.3.  Incorporate wartime and contingency electromagnetic spectrum management 
procedures into the appropriate operational or contingency plan appendices. 
2.1.4.4.  Provide electromagnetic spectrum guidance to the commands’ acquisition, 
logistics, intelligence, operations, and communications planning staffs.  (T-1) 
2.1.4.5.  Manage electromagnetic spectrum use in the concept, planning, deployment, 
operation, and evaluation phases of commands’ supported exercises and operations.  
(T-1) 
2.1.4.6.  Process and obtain frequency assignments, spectrum certifications, and 
International Telecommunication Union satellite registration for spectrum-dependent 
systems in support of operational requirements in accordance with NTIA Manual and 
DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.1.4.7.  Provide guidance on the use of the electromagnetic spectrum early in the 
concept, exploration, demonstration, and validation phases of the acquisition process. 
2.1.4.8.  Ensure coordination with the appropriate agencies (i.e., Department of 
Defense area frequency coordinators) is accomplished prior to frequency assignment 
in accordance with NTIA Manual and ACP 190 US SUPP-1(D).  (T-0) 
2.1.4.9.  Review the subordinate unit electromagnetic spectrum management programs. 
2.1.4.10.  Assist organizations to ensure there is no degradation of friendly systems or 
operations during command, control, and communications electromagnetic attack 
training activities. 
2.1.4.11.  Ensure subordinates have spectrum processes in place to provide operational 
support and guidance to users. 
2.1.4.12.  Provide subordinate spectrum operations personnel with necessary training 
and guidance required to perform their assigned spectrum duties. 
2.1.4.13.  Ensure subordinate spectrum operations technicians have current 
SPECTRUM XXI data. 
2.1.4.14.  Provide assistance to major or field command’s Inspector General’s 
inspecting subordinate organizations to ensure critical compliance items are identified 
and complied with when accomplishing self-inspections and compliance inspections in 
accordance with AFI 90-201. 
2.1.4.15.  Ensure all spectrum-dependent systems employed during sponsored 
exercises to include foreign military equipment, have approved frequency assignments 
from an appropriate authority in accordance with the NTIA Manual and ACP 190 US 
SUPP-1(D).  (T-0) 
6 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
2.1.4.16.  Compile all components of the Federal Aviation Administration exercise 
package 150 days before exercise start date with foreign platform participation, in 
accordance with Federal Aviation Administration, Interim Guide for Coordinating 
Identification, Friend or Foe (IFF) Missions.  (T-0)  Exercise packages include:  
frequency proposals; participants and platforms; spectrum certifications and/or 
identification friend or foe; interrogator certification or letter of recommendation; area 
of responsibilities; and exercise flight schedule. 
2.1.4.17.  Contact appropriate combatant command for theater specific lead-time 
criteria. 
2.1.4.18.  Provide AF/A2/6CO with a schedule of planned exercises within United 
States and its possessions annually to include dates, times and locations of related 
planning conferences. 
2.1.4.19.  Provide quality control and updates to frequency records in the Frequency 
Resource Record System. 
2.1.4.20.  Assist in the reporting and resolution of interference events involving 
assigned frequencies in accordance with AFI 17-221. 
2.1.4.21.  Review each subordinate unit’s spectrum supportability risk assessment 
submissions ensuring each required assessment component has been properly and 
accurately completed and presented in accordance with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.1.4.22.  Provide administrative support to the Department of the Air Force’s 
Department of Defense area frequency coordinator in accordance with ACP 190 US 
SUPP-1(D).  (T-0) 
2.1.4.23.  Be actively involved in communications and information planning and assist 
in coordinating and obtaining frequency support to meet the commands’ mission. 
2.1.5.  Numbered Air Force Spectrum Operations Manager.  The manager will carry out 
Department of the Air Force policy, practices, and procedures for managing use of the 
electromagnetic spectrum.  (T-2)  Numbered Air Force Spectrum Operations Manager will: 
2.1.5.1.  Participate in communications and information planning, assist in 
coordinating, and obtaining frequency support to meet the major command, air 
component, and/or combatant command missions. 
2.1.5.2.  Provide major command spectrum supportability guidance to the planning 
staff functions that includes the Department of the Air Force spectrum certification and 
radio frequency assignment processes and requirements. 
2.1.5.3.  Evaluate and coordinate spectrum use during the concept, planning, 
deployment, operation, and evaluation phases of exercises and operations. 
2.1.5.4.  Obtain frequency assignments and spectrum certifications for spectrum-
dependent systems in accordance with the NTIA Manual and DoDI 4650.01, in support 
of installation infrastructures, exercises, contingencies, or wartime operational 
requirements.  (T-0) 
2.1.5.4.1.  Ensure all frequency requirements and allotment requests for operations 
within the United States and its possessions are coordinated with the appropriate 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
7 
Department of Defense area frequency coordinator, major command, and/or service 
spectrum management office with jurisdiction in the proposed area of use.  (T-2) 
2.1.5.4.2.  Ensure all frequency requirements and allotment requests for operations 
outside the United States and its possessions are coordinated with the appropriate 
combatant command Joint Frequency Management Office in accordance with 
procedures outlined in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 
3320.01C, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations in the Electromagnetic 
Operational Environment, and combatant command guidance.  (T-0) 
2.1.5.5.  Maintain current editions of the frequency management publications. 
2.1.5.6.  Maintain an accurate SPECTRUM XXI database of all frequency 
assignments. 
2.1.5.7.  Ensure frequency assignments are reviewed according to guidance provided 
in the NTIA Manual, Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.1.6.  Major and Field Command,  Subordinate Unit Commander.  A unit commander 
assigned to the Department of the Air Force test and training ranges, groups, etc. will: 
2.1.6.1.  Carry out Department of the Air Force policy, practices, and procedures for 
managing the use of the electromagnetic spectrum within their area of responsibility.  
(T-2) 
2.1.6.2.  Assist organizations and users within their control regarding communications 
and information planning, coordinating, and obtaining frequency support to meet the 
mission. 
2.1.6.3.  Ensure contingency electromagnetic spectrum management procedures are 
placed in operational and contingency plans and appendices as appropriate. 
2.1.6.4.  Provide electromagnetic spectrum guidance to users in acquisition, logistics, 
intelligence, operations, and communications planning staffs.  (T-2) 
2.1.6.5.  Manage electromagnetic spectrum use in the concept, planning, deployment, 
operation, and evaluation phases, of supported exercises. 
2.1.6.6.  Provide electromagnetic spectrum guidance to program managers early in the 
conceptual, exploration, demonstration, and validation phases of the acquisition 
process.  (T-3) 
2.1.6.7.  Review and update frequency assignment records in accordance with guidance 
found in NTIA Manual, Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.1.7.  Host Installation Commander or Director.  The commander or director is 
responsible for all electromagnetic radiation emanating from their installation and from 
those outlying activities hosted by the installation in accordance with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-
0)  Host installation commanders or directors will: 
2.1.7.1.  Ensure a viable spectrum operations program for the site and areas under the 
control of the host installation.  (T-2) 
8 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
2.1.7.2.  Deconflict all spectrum-dependent systems to resolve potential interference to 
mission essential electromagnetic equipment in accordance with NTIA Manual and 
DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.1.7.3.  Appoint a full-time spectrum operations specialist (i.e., 3D1X4) to organize 
and carry out the spectrum operations program and notify the parent command, 
appropriate spectrum operations office and the Department of the Air Force Spectrum 
Management Office.  (T-2)  Note:  Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve units 
may identify a full-time member to serve and fulfill the installation spectrum manager 
role.  The use of spectrum operations specialist personnel for Air National Guard and 
Air Force Reserve Command units is at the Commander’s discretion.  Non-spectrum 
operations specialist personnel must receive installation spectrum manager training 
from the Headquarters Air National Guard or Headquarters Air Force Reserve 
Command.  (T-2) 
2.1.7.4.  Ensure hosted spectrum-dependent systems comply with the NTIA Manual 
and MC4EB Frequency Panel spectrum policy and guidance.  (T-0) 
2.1.7.5.  Ensure spectrum is considered as part of installation encroachment 
considerations to identify potential mission sustainment hazards in accordance with 
AFI 90-2001, Mission Sustainment. (T-3) 
2.1.7.6.  Ensure appropriate real property procedures are in place and followed (e.g., 
documentation, competition, fair market value) in order to execute a real estate 
agreement in accordance with AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force 
Real Property, to support deployment of wireless technologies along with other 
wireless requirements in compliance with Public Law 104-104, Telecommunications 
Act of 1996.  (T-0)  This includes compliance with the requirement that the installation 
spectrum manager ensures that an electromagnetic compatibility site analysis is 
performed and the proposed commercial spectrum-dependent system will not 
negatively impact Department of the Air Force missions in accordance with the AFI 
32-9003.  (T-0) 
2.1.7.7.  Ensure compliance with the requirements of the Frequency Assignment 
Review Program described in NTIA Manual, Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.1.8.  Installation Communications Commander or Director.  The commander or director 
will: 
2.1.8.1.  Ensure the installation spectrum manager has, or is able to attain, the security 
clearance as indicated on the unit manning document required to perform spectrum 
operations duties.  (T-2) 
2.1.8.2.  Ensure the installation spectrum manager has Secret Internet Protocol Router 
Network access with SPECTRUM XXI and data exchange capability.  (T-3) 
2.1.8.3.  Evaluate the complexity of the electromagnetic environment by conducting 
threat assessments against mission needs using available spectrum analyzers.  (T-3) 
2.1.8.4.  Publish an installation spectrum operations instruction and forward draft 
copies to the parent command for review before publishing.  (T-2)  The local instruction 
includes: 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
9 
2.1.8.4.1.  Assessment of local purchase or government purchase card orders for 
spectrum-dependent systems to determine spectrum supportability prior to the 
obligation of funds; specifically, if the system is deployed outside the continental 
United States in accordance with ACP 190 US SUPP-1(D), Chapter 3.  (T-0) 
2.1.8.4.2.  Review of memoranda of understandings or memoranda of agreements 
that pertain to the use of spectrum-dependent systems.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.  Installation and Garrison Spectrum Manager.  The spectrum manager is responsible 
to the installation commander, through their chain of command, for managing all spectrum 
use on the sites and areas under the control of the installation commander.  The spectrum 
manager will: 
2.1.9.1.  Ensure using organizations understand the technical parameters and any 
imposed operational restrictions of their assigned frequencies.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.2.  Maintain current frequency management records of all frequencies assigned 
to the sites and areas hosted by the installation and provide using organizations with a 
spectrum authorization (license) for their records.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.3.  Meet with all using organizations annually to conduct customer education and 
discuss current spectrum operations issues.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.4.  Process frequency proposals and applications for equipment spectrum 
certification using the End-to-End Supportability System and SPECTRUM XXI 
respectively, and ensure submissions are processed through the appropriate command 
channels.  (T-2) 
2.1.9.5.  Provide spectrum operations assistance and guidance to tenant activities.  (T-
3) 
2.1.9.6.  Support local exercise coordination requirements.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.7.  Review operational plans and requirement documents, and obtain frequency 
support through command channels.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.8.  Assist deployable units with identifying spectrum requirements for exercises 
and contingencies.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.9.  Review and validate using organizations frequency assignment requirements, 
validate existing frequency assignment parameters, and submit modifications, renewal, 
or deletion actions through command channels in accordance with the NTIA Manual, 
Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.1.9.10.  Update frequency records in the Frequency Resource Record System.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.11.  Maintain a current point of contact list for using activities.  (T-3)  Contact 
list includes:  name, unit, e-mail address, and phone number.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.12.  Ensure contractor activities using the Department of the Air Force’s 
frequency assignments follow federal and MC4EB Pub 7, Frequency Resource Record 
System (FRRS) Standard Frequency Action Format (SFAF), for electromagnetic 
spectrum policies and guidelines.  (T-0) 
10 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
2.1.9.13.  Educate spectrum users on the importance of obtaining spectrum 
supportability guidance and validation prior to entering into a contractual obligation 
for all spectrum-dependent systems in accordance with the NTIA Manual and DoDI 
4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.1.9.14.  Perform emitter surveys, based on resource availability, as required with 
assistance from the parent command to ensure spectrum-dependent systems are 
operated in accordance with frequency licenses.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.15.  Coordinate new and renewal requirements with appropriate Department of 
Defense area frequency coordinator in accordance with NTIA Manual and ACP 190 
US SUPP-1(D).  (T-0) 
2.1.9.16.  Immediately notify appropriate Department of Defense area frequency 
coordinator and command spectrum manager requesting interference resolution 
assistance to initiate an investigation to locate and determine the offending source and 
report the interference in accordance with AFI 17-221.  (T-1) 
2.1.9.17.  Coordinate with the safety office and weapons safety officer to support the 
hazard of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance program and provide frequency 
assignment records for antenna locations in accordance with AFI 91-208, Hazards of 
Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance (HERO) Certification and Management.  (T-
1) 
2.1.9.17.1.  Provide parametric data for spectrum-dependent systems.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.17.2.  Coordinate spectrum-dependent system relocation or parametric data 
changes with the user and safety office.  (T-3) 
2.1.9.17.3.  Coordinate with the installation safety office to identify any hazard of 
electromagnetic radiation to fuel and the bioenvironmental engineering flight to 
support health hazard evaluations and inventory accuracy in accordance with AFI 
48-109, 
Electromagnetic 
Field 
Radiation 
(EMFR) 
Occupational 
and 
Environmental Health Program.  (T-1) 
2.1.9.18.  Submit proposals for units through command spectrum channels.  (T-2) 
2.1.9.19.  Submit proposals for tenant units supporting the host mission to the host’s 
and tenant’s commands respectively.  (T-2) 
2.1.9.20.  Submit proposals for tenant units not supporting the host mission to the 
supported unit’s parent command with a copy to the host and tenant unit spectrum 
commands.  (T-2)  See examples below: 
2.1.9.20.1.  Submit frequency requirements for a Headquarters Air Combat 
Command maintenance expediter net on a Headquarters Air Mobility Command 
installation to Headquarters Air Combat Command with a copy to Headquarters 
Air Mobility Command. 
2.1.9.20.2.  Submit frequency requirements for a Headquarters Air Force Materiel 
Command unit in support of Air Combat Command on an Air Mobility Command 
installation to Headquarters Air Combat Command with a copy to Air Force 
Materiel Command and Air Mobility Command. 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
11 
2.1.9.21.  Ensure all electromagnetic attack events for test, training, and exercises are 
processed in accordance with CJCSM 3212.02E, Performing Electronic Attack in the 
United States and Canada for Tests, Training, and Exercises or CJCSM 3212.03A, 
Performing Tests, Training, and Exercises Impacting the Global Positioning System 
(GPS).  (T-0) 
2.1.10.  Joint Base Spectrum Operations.  The lead service designates a spectrum manager 
to provide spectrum support for the common functions.  The service spectrum manager 
ensures the Joint Base Spectrum Manager is aware of their spectrum-dependent systems 
within the boundaries of the Joint Base.  Service requirements are processed through 
national command channels after approval from the Joint Base Spectrum Manager.  The 
Department of the Air Force Joint Base Spectrum Manager will: 
2.1.10.1.  Pre-coordinate all temporary and permanent frequency proposals with the 
installation spectrum manager prior to submission to the national level for processing.  
(T-2) 
2.1.10.2.  Conduct 
periodic 
frequency 
assignment 
reviews 
and 
coordinate 
modifications on joint frequency assignments prior to submission to the national level 
in accordance with NTIA Manual, Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.1.10.3.  Obtain spectrum certification for joint spectrum-dependent systems prior to 
submitting any frequency proposal in accordance with the NTIA Manual, Chapter 10 
and DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.2.  User Organization.  User organizations, to include but not limited to acquisition, program, 
operational, test, and tenant units will: 
2.2.1.  Obtain spectrum certification prior to purchasing a spectrum-dependent system or 
entering into any contractual obligations for the use of spectrum-dependent devices in 
accordance with the NTIA Manual, paragraph 10.1.2 and DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.2.2.  Obtain a frequency assignment through the installation spectrum manager prior to 
operation of any spectrum-dependent devices that radiate radio frequency energy per NTIA 
Manual, Chapter 8.  (T-0) 
2.2.3.  Maintain a copy of frequency authorizations received from the installation spectrum 
manager.  (T-3) 
2.2.4.  Ensure spectrum-dependent system operations comply with authorized parameters 
identified in the frequency assignment notification in accordance with NTIA Manual, 
Chapter 8.  (T-0) 
2.2.5.  Act promptly to notify the installation spectrum manager to report and assist in 
resolving incidents of interference in accordance with AFI 17-221. (T-1) 
2.2.6.  Use radiation-suppression devices when tuning, testing, or experimenting with any 
equipment that emits radio frequency.  (T-3) 
2.2.7.  Maintain and identify a point-of-contact to the installation spectrum manager for 
unit frequency matters.  (T-3) 
2.2.8.  Document and forward documentation for frequency assignment deletions to the 
installation or garrison spectrum manager.  (T-3) 
12 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
2.2.9.  Obtain approval from the installation spectrum manager before modifying any 
existing spectrum-dependent systems or antennas (i.e., increase power, change antenna 
height or gain), if outside of the assigned parameters of the frequency authorization in 
accordance with the NTIA Manual, Chapter 10.  (T-0) 
2.2.10.  Assist the installation spectrum manager in reviewing and verifying equipment 
parameters during mandatory and periodic reviews, in accordance with NTIA Manual, 
Annex F.  (T-0) 
2.2.11.  Contact the installation spectrum manager for interpretation or guidance of any 
national or military-level spectrum management policy.  (T-3) 
2.2.12.  Process spectrum supportability risk assessments in accordance with DoDI 
4650.01.  (T-0) 
2.2.13.  Submit host nation coordination requests to the installation spectrum manager in 
accordance with CJCSM 3320.01C.  (T-0) 
2.2.14.  Obtain electromagnetic attack authorizations from the Department of the Air Force 
Spectrum Management Office prior to test, training, or exercises in accordance with 
CJCSM 3212.02E or CJCSM 3212.03A.  (T-0) 
2.3.  The Department of Defense Area Frequency Coordinator.  The coordinator is responsible 
for ensuring successful frequency coordination in the areas that lie within, are adjacent to, or 
are within radio line-of-sight to any range spectrum-dependent system, including all systems 
brought to a national test range or other designated complex in accordance with NTIA Manual, 
Chapter 8.  (T-0)  The Joint Staff, MC4EB Frequency Panel provides spectrum policy and 
guidance in accordance with DoDI 4650.01 and ACP 190 US SUPP-1(D). 
3.  SPECTRUM SUPPORTABILITY ACTIONS. 
3.1.  Spectrum Certification.  Spectrum certification is the statutory process whereby national 
regulatory 
bodies, 
NTIA 
and 
Federal 
Communications 
Commission 
review 
telecommunications systems for compliance with national spectrum standards and determine 
electromagnetic compatibility.  This applies to spectrum-dependent and commercial-off-the-
shelf systems, unless specifically exempt, in accordance with the NTIA Manual, Chapter 10. 
3.1.1.  Local purchases of spectrum-dependent systems will be reviewed by the installation 
spectrum manager to evaluate spectrum supportability prior to the obligation of funds.  If 
the system will be deployed outside the United States, DAF policy is that host nation 
coordination is required in accordance with the DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
3.1.2.  The NTIA, Spectrum Planning Subcommittee, may approve out-of-band 
requirements with an analysis and justification.  Out-of-band operations are operated on a 
strict non-interference basis.  Program offices provide justification for non-compliant 
systems in accordance with NTIA Manual, Chapter 10.  (T-0) 
3.1.3.  To protect receive only systems (e.g. global/weather broadcast receivers) supporting 
a critical operation, national level spectrum certification is required.  The certification 
application should contain a narrative that describes the criticality of the operation at a 
specified location.  Once spectrum certification is approved, an assignment request is 
submitted to the NTIA to protect the receive frequency. 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
13 
3.1.4.  Electromagnetic attack systems are exempt from the national spectrum certification 
process and are supported through the Joint Staff, MC4EB, Equipment Supportability 
Permanent Working Group.  Systems that are operated outside the United States and its 
possessions are coordinated through the appropriate combatant command in accordance 
with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
3.2.  Spectrum Supportability Risk Assessment.  An assessment must be performed by the 
Department of the Air Force acquisition programs and materiel developers to identify risk as 
early as possible and affect design and procurement decisions for all spectrum-dependent 
systems.  Review these risks at each milestone decision point as outlined in DoDI 4650.01.  
(T-0) 
3.2.1.  Department of the Air Force acquisition or materiel development programs, 
including electromagnetic attack systems, will submit spectrum supportability risk 
assessment at each milestone decision point in accordance with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
3.2.2.  Quick response programs enter at Milestone C (production and deployment) and go 
directly to initial operational test and evaluation in accordance with DoDI 4650.01.  (T-0) 
3.2.3.  The program manager will insert the NTIA certification stage and number, and 
approval date into the Information Technology Investment Portfolio System in accordance 
with AFI 17-110, Information Technology Portfolio Management and Capital Planning 
and Investment Control. 
3.3.  Department of Defense Electromagnetic Compatibility Standards.  Military-Standard-
464, Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Requirements for Systems, provides 
important electromagnetic compatibility and electromagnetic environmental effects standards 
for Department of Defense spectrum-dependent systems.  The Department of the Air Force 
spectrum programs will adhere to Military-Standard-464 and DoDI 3222.03, DoD 
Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program.  (T-0) 
 
MARY F. O’BRIEN, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects Operations 
14 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Public Law 104-104, Telecommunications Act of 1996, 8 February 1996 
DoDI 3222.03, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program, 25 August 2014 
DoDI 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic 
Spectrum, 9 January 2009 
DoDD 5100.03, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Unified Commands, 
9 February 2011 
MIL-STD-464, Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Requirements for Systems, 25 
August 2014 
CJCSM 3212.02E, Performing Electronic Attack in the United States and Canada for Tests, 
Training, and Exercises, 17 June 2019 
CJCSM 3212.03A, Performing Tests, Training, and Exercises Impacting the Global Positioning 
System (GPS), 8 November 2013 
CJCSM 3320.01C, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Management Operations in the 
Electromagnetic Operational Environment, 14 December 2012 
JP 3-85, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations, 22 May 2020 
DAFPD 17-2, Cyber Warfare Operations, 27 October 2020 
AFI 17-110, Information Technology Portfolio Management and Capital Planning and 
Investment Control, 23 May 2018 
AFI 17-221, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 11 May 2018 
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property, 24 October 2018 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
DAFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 1 December 2015 
AFI 48-109, Electromagnetic Field Radiation (EMFR) Occupational and Environmental Health 
Program, 1 August 2014 
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 20 November 2018 
AFI 91-208, Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance (HERO) Certification and 
Management, 24 October 2019 
AFI 90-2001, Mission Sustainment, 31 July 2019 
International Telecommunication Union, Radio Regulations, Edition 2020 
Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management, National 
Telecommunication and Information Administration, September 2017 
ACP 190 US SUPP-1(D), Guide to Frequency Planning, January 2015 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
15 
Federal Aviation Administration, Interim Guide for Coordinating Identification, Friend or Foe 
(IFF) Missions, 30 November 2015 
https://usaf.dps.mil/:b:/s/afspcafsmo/SpectrumSupportDirectorate/SQA/ET2Bly1CStpHiH
C_K05UOYQBcgq5RBwMu3_qMVHUP3-lsQ?e=hZgvw2 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
MC4EB Pub 7, Frequency Resource Record System (FRRS) Standard Frequency Action Format 
(SFAF) 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
ACP—Allied Communications Publication 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
E3—Electromagnetic Environmental Effects 
ITU RR—International Telecommunication Union Radio Regulation 
JP—Joint Publication 
MC4EB—Military Command, Control, Communications, and Computers Executive Board 
NTIA—National Telecommunications and Information Administration 
Terms 
Allotment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel)—Entry of a designated frequency 
channel in an agreed plan, adopted by a component conference, for use by one or more 
administrations for a (terrestrial or space) radio communication service in one or more identified 
countries or geographical areas and under specified conditions.  Source:  ITU RR. 
Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel)—Authorization given by an 
administration for a radio station to use a radio frequency or radio frequency channel under 
specified conditions.  Source:  ITU RR. 
Commercial—off-the-Shelf—Spectrum-dependent systems that can be procured by the general 
public wholesale or retail.  Source:  National Institute of Standards and Technology. 
Electromagnetic Attack—Division of electromagnetic warfare involving the use of 
electromagnetic energy, directed energy, or anti-radiation weapons to attack personnel, facilities, 
or equipment with the intent of degrading, neutralizing, or destroying enemy combat capability 
and is considered a form of fires.  Source:  JP 3-85. 
16 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
Electromagnetic Compatibility—(1) The condition that prevails when telecommunications 
equipment is performing its individually designed function in a common electromagnetic without 
causing or suffering unacceptable degradation due to unintentional electromagnetic interference 
to or from other equipment in the same environment.  Source:  NTIA.  (2)  The ability of systems, 
equipment, and devices that use the electromagnetic spectrum to operate in their intended 
environments without causing or suffering unacceptable or unintentional degradation because of 
electromagnetic radiation or response.  Source:  JP 3-85 
Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3)—The impact of the electromagnetic operational 
environment upon the operational capability of military forces, equipment, systems, and platforms.  
E3 encompasses the electromagnetic effects addressed by the disciplines of electromagnetic 
compatibility, electromagnetic interference, electromagnetic vulnerability, electromagnetic pulse, 
electromagnetic protection, electrostatic discharge, and electromagnetic radiation hazards to 
personnel, ordnance, and fuels and volatile materials.  E3 includes the affects generated by all 
electromagnetic environment contributors including radio frequency systems, ultra-wideband 
devices, high-powered microwave systems, lightning, and precipitation static.  Source:  DoDI 
3222.03. 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Management—The operational, engineering, and administrative 
procedures to plan, and coordinate operations within the electromagnetic operational environment.  
Source:  JP 3-85. 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations—Coordinated military actions to exploit, attack, protect, 
and manage the electromagnetic environment.  Source:  JP 3-85. 
Electromagnetic Warfare—Military action involving the use of the electromagnetic and directed 
energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy.  Source:  JP 3-85. 
Frequency Assignment—see Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel).  
Source:  ITU RR. 
Frequency Coordination—(1) The process of obtaining approval to use the radio frequency 
spectrum via arrangements and technical liaison for the purpose of minimizing harmful 
interference through cooperative use of the radio frequency spectrum.  Source:  NTIA.  (2) Rules 
and mechanisms that control how to use the electromagnetic spectrum in specified dimensions 
(i.e., spatial, time, frequency, power, waveform.  Source:  JP 3-85.  To be effective, the 
coordination must extend through the planning, proposal, and actual in use phases of radio 
frequency utilization. 
Interference—(1) The effect of unwanted energy due to one or a combination of emissions, 
radiations, or inductions upon reception in a radio communication system, manifested by any 
performance degradation, misinterpretation, or loss of information that could be extracted in the 
absence of such unwanted energy.  Source:  ITU RR.  (2) Any electromagnetic disturbance, 
induced intentionally or unintentionally, that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits 
the effective performance of electromagnetic spectrum-dependent systems and electrical 
equipment. Also referred to as electromagnetic interference.  Source:  JP 3-85. 
Radio Frequency Spectrum—The radio frequency spectrum includes the frequencies from 3.0 
kilohertz to 400 gigahertz.  The presently allocated spectrum is from 9 kilohertz to 275 gigahertz.  
Also called electromagnetic spectrum.  Source:  NTIA. 
DAFI17-220  8 JUNE 2021 
17 
Spectrum Supportability Risk Assessment—An assessment performed by Department of the 
Defense for all spectrum-dependent systems to identify risk as early as possible and affect design 
and procurement decisions.  These risks are reviewed at acquisition milestones and managed 
throughout the system’s life cycle.  Source:  DoDI 4650.01. 
National Table of Allocations—Entry in the federal table of frequency allocations of a given 
frequency band for its use by one or more (terrestrial or space) radio communication services or 
the radio astronomy service under specified conditions.  This term also applies to the frequency 
band concerned.  Source:  NTIA. 
Telecommunication—Any transmission, emission, or reception of signs, signals, writings, 
images, and sounds or information of any nature by wire, radio, visual or other electromagnetic 
systems.  Source:  ITA RR. 
United States and its Possessions—Includes the 50 States, District of Columbia, the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions (but less the Canal Zone) 
Source:  NTIA. 
 
