BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
INSTRUCTION 14-411 
19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Intelligence 
ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication. 
 
 
OPR: AF/A2/6OC 
Certified by: AF/A2/6O  
(Col Ariel Batungbacal)
Supersedes: 
DAFMAN 14-401, 26 MAY 2021 
Pages: 30 
 
 
Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 
14-4, Management of the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations Enterprise and DoDI 5000.86, Acquisition Intelligence.  This instruction establishes 
the Acquisition Intelligence guidelines and procedures to the entire DAF, including all civilian 
employees and uniformed members who perform the intelligence functions that are part of 
capability development, test, research and development (R&D), the acquisition life cycle, and 
sustainment.  This instruction also supports activities and weapon systems procured under 
Department of Defense (DoD) 5000 series, in particular DoDD 5000.01 of instructions comprising 
the Defense Acquisition System.  Additionally, this DAFI implements, Department of the Air 
Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) 10-9, Lead Command/Lead Agent Designation and 
Responsibilities for Weapons Systems, Non-Weapon Systems, and Activities, Defense Intelligence 
Agency Instruction (DIAI) 5000.002, Intelligence Threat Support for Major Defense Acquisition 
Programs, Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5205.07 Volume 1, Special Access Program 
Security Manual: General Procedures, and Department of Defense Manual (DoDM) 5240.01, 
Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence Activities. If there is conflicting guidance 
between this DAFI and any DoD series or published higher-level guidance, the DoD series or 
published higher-level guidance takes precedence.  This publication applies to all civilian 
employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air 
National Guard, the United States Space Force, and those with a contractual obligation to abide by 
the terms of DAF publications.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in 
this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records 
2 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  
Submit change recommendations using an DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of 
Publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).  This publication may be 
supplemented, and all supplements must be coordinated with the OPR prior to certification and 
approval.  Upon publication, Major Commands and Field Commands will ensure copies are 
provided to the OPR.  The authorities to waive wing, unit, delta, or garrison level requirements in 
this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance 
statement.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier 
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. 
 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION. ..................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ......................................................................  
4 
3. 
FORCE DEVLEOPMENT ......................................................................................  
12 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
14 
Attachment 2—ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
 
22 
Attachment 3—ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE ROLES 
 
30 
 
 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
3 
 
1.  INTRODUCTION. 
1.1.  Purpose.  This instruction outlines directive, overarching processes, and procedures 
required to deliver and sustain acquisition intelligence.  It provides guidance to ensure that 
intelligence and its related infrastructure are aligned and integrated appropriately within DAF 
capability development and acquisition life cycle activities. 
1.1.1.  Acquisition intelligence is the application of intelligence such as foundational 
military intelligence about adversary threats and planning for intelligence dependency in 
acquisition projects, programs, and operations.  This is not a new intelligence discipline.  
(See DoDI 5000.86, Acquisition Intelligence).  It supports capability development, test, 
R&D, and the acquisition life cycle. 
1.1.2.  Acquisition intelligence shall be integrated IAW Title 10 U.S.C. § 4211, Acquisition 
Strategy. It is required by DAFI 63-101/20-101 Integrated Life Cycle Management, for 
capability development and the acquisition life cycle. 
1.2.  Foundational Terms and Concepts.  This publication uses the following terms: 
1.2.1.  “Acquisition intelligence” as defined above.  It includes support for the six Adaptive 
Acquisition Framework pathways and all aspects of the definition. These aspects include: 
1.2.1.1.  Major Commands (MAJCOM), Field Commands (FLDCOM), Direct 
Reporting Units (DRU), and Field Operating Agency (FOA) execute processes such as 
intelligence integration, joint-specific, and service-specific capability development. 
1.2.1.2.  Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and Space Systems Command (SSC) 
are materiel focused commands that execute procurement and sustainment activities. 
1.2.2.  “Acquisition intelligence analysts” (AIAs) are designated DAF professionals who 
execute acquisition intelligence activities as their primary duty in MAJCOM, FLDCOM, 
DRU, FOA, AFMC, SSC, DAF service intelligence centers, and DAF-level staff agencies.  
AIAs will abide by all intelligence oversite requirements. 
1.2.3.  “Programs” are activities related to a materiel system’s development and 
acquisition, and they are elements of the MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA, AFMC and 
SSC that execute those processes. 
1.2.4.  “Projects” are R&D activities and special activities that involve the acquisition of 
capabilities done inside or outside the standard acquisition life cycle. 
1.3.  Scope.  This instruction addresses DAF acquisition intelligence roles and responsibilities 
for specific organizations.  It applies to all DAF entities that create or integrate intelligence 
into capability development, test, R&D, and the acquisition life cycle.  It applies regardless of 
entity type, primary function, authority, or funding source.  It applies to all DAF-level 
headquarters staff agencies, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA, service intelligence centers, 
DAF rapid capabilities offices, and rapid acquisition offices/units.  This instruction also applies 
to all development and acquisition pathways and processes, such as service-specific processes, 
the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), Major Capability 
Acquisition, Middle Tier of Acquisition, Urgent Capability Acquisition, Software Acquisition 
Programs, Foreign Military Sales, and Special Access Programs. 
4 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
2.  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. 
2.1.  General  . 
2.1.1.  The entire capability development and Materiel Enterprise is collectively 
responsible for integrating intelligence into capability development, R&D, test, and the 
acquisition life cycle.  DAF identifies four major areas as critical to the effectiveness of 
intelligence support to acquisition. The four areas are: 
2.1.1.1.  Intelligence supportability analysis, to identify, document, and plan for 
intelligence data and infrastructure necessary to successfully acquire and employ DAF 
capabilities. 
2.1.1.2.  Threat support to capability development, R&D, test, and the acquisition life 
cycle, which integrates intelligence on current and future threats into these processes. 
2.1.1.3.  ISR interoperability reviews, to ensure the materiel system being developed 
can integrate with the ISR collection and dissemination ecosystem if the system can 
collect, disseminate, or must receive intelligence or other relevant battlespace 
information. 
2.1.1.4.  Force Development, to ensure AIAs are trained, educated, and receive the 
experience required to effectively execute the acquisition intelligence mission. 
2.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ) and Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition (SAF/SQ) will: 
2.2.1.  Provide policy and guidance to ensure intelligence integrates throughout capability 
development, test, R&D, and the acquisition life cycle IAW this instruction. 
2.2.2.  Ensure the DAF acquisition workforce is organized, trained, and equipped to 
execute acquisition intelligence activities IAW this instruction. 
2.2.3.  Set policy and direction for DAF acquisition processes to identify and resolve 
intelligence dependency shortfalls for intelligence-sensitive programs. 
2.2.4.  Set policy and guidance for the Materiel Enterprise, including program and test 
managers, to document and report the following: 
2.2.4.1.  Determine gaps in the program’s ability to model and outpace future threats. 
2.2.4.2.  Actions the program will take to rectify or mitigate these gaps during the 
program life cycle. 
2.2.5.  Ensure the Materiel Enterprise is integrating digitalized threat representation 
products, such as threat Modeling & Simulation (M&S) and threat databases. 
2.2.6.  Collaborate with Service Deputy Chiefs of Staff responsible for Strategy, Plans, 
Programs, and ISR on integrating intelligence into decision processes.  These include 
program/project documents for capability development, test, and R&D throughout the 
acquisition life cycle to include intelligence certification. 
2.3.  Director for Studies and Analysis, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/SA) will:  
2.3.1.  Function as lead for DAF M&S policy and standards. 
2.3.2.  Function as lead for the DAF M&S Council. 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
5 
2.3.3.  Collaborate with Service Deputy Chiefs and the Defense Intelligence Enterprise. 
2.3.4.  Establish policy to integrate threat M&S into DAF program/project digital 
engineering and M&S environments throughout capability development and the 
acquisition life cycle. 
2.3.5.  Review and approve priorities of DAF threat M&S requirements. 
2.4.  Program Executive Officers (PEOs) and Technology Executive Officers will: 
2.4.1.  Provide direction to ensure intelligence integrates into capability development, test, 
R&D, and the acquisition life cycle. 
2.4.2.  Support DAF acquisition intelligence analysts to execute acquisition intelligence 
activities. 
2.4.3.  Coordinate with AFMC or SSC A2/S2 senior leadership to designate an intelligence 
focal point.  For example, designate a Director of Intelligence (DOI) to ensure intelligence 
fully integrates into the decision processes for the acquisition life cycle. 
2.4.4.  Ensure programs/projects are fully threat-informed, have intelligence supportability 
(data and infrastructure), conduct Intelligence Health Assessments (IHAs), and have ISR 
interoperability consistent with this instruction and DAFI 63-101/20-101. 
2.4.5.  Coordinate with the requirements community to identify requirements, actions and 
resources needed to ensure programs/projects are developed to outpace future threats. 
2.4.6.  Ensure programs and projects develop and implement an intelligence integration 
strategy, plan, or course of action as part of the program’s documented acquisition strategy 
to meet program/project objectives. 
2.4.7.  Ensure programs and projects include intelligence requirements in Program 
Protection Plans and Science and Technology Protection Plans consistent with DoDI 
DoDI5000.83_DAFI63-113, Technology and Program Protection to Maintain 
Technological Advantage.  Reference also DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information 
(CPI) Identification and Protection Within Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation 
(RDT&E), DoDD 5205.07, Special Access Program Policy, and DoDI 5205.11, 
Management, Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs. 
2.4.8.  Ensure programs and projects leverage, and if required, integrate, the supply chain 
focused information collected and analyzed by the Department of Defense Cyber Crime 
Center (DC3). 
2.4.9.  Ensure programs and projects identify intelligence requirements and if required 
submit them through the Community On-Line Intelligence System for End-Users and 
Managers to the Intelligence Community. 
2.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel (HAF/A1) and Deputy Chief of Space Operations for 
Human Capital (SF/S1) will: 
2.5.1.  Professionalize acquisition intelligence by designating AIA billets and acquisition 
intelligence as a sub-specialty of the Air Force Intelligence career field. 
2.5.2.  Assist Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and 
Cyber Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) and Deputy Chief of Space Operations for 
6 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Intelligence (SF/S2), as appropriate, by monitoring and managing the DAF workforce 
awarded the Acquisition Intelligence Special Experience Identifier.  Designate AIA billets 
in the appropriate personnel systems. 
2.5.3.  Support manpower studies to ensure acquisition intelligence manpower/resources 
are adequate to perform the mission. 
2.6.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6) and Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2) will: 
2.6.1.  Ensure intelligence is integrated into capability development, test, R&D, and the 
acquisition life cycle IAW this instruction. 
2.6.2.  Identify, organize, train, and equip Air Staff and Space Staff personnel to execute 
higher headquarters functions for acquisition intelligence, including policy/strategy 
development, DAF-level representation, and advocacy IAW this instruction. 
2.6.3.  Execute acquisition intelligence policy and strategy across the DAF enterprise.  
Integrate actions with the DAF and DoD entities, to include the Defense Intelligence 
Enterprise. 
2.6.4.  Advise the Director of Acquisition Career Management (SAF/AQ) on acquisition 
intelligence workforce management issues.  Assist in executing acquisition workforce 
responsibilities in respective acquisition functions IAW DAFI 36-2670, Total Force 
Development. 
2.6.5.  Collaborate with Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Requirements, 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Strategy, Plans, Programs, Requirements, and 
Analysis on issues related to acquisition intelligence during capability development and 
document development.  Provide intelligence certification IAW JCIDS guidance. 
2.6.6.  Provide authoritative intelligence in decision making, development, and review 
processes for capability development, requirements development, planning, and 
acquisitions. 
2.6.7.  Represent DAF acquisition intelligence interests to DoD and other agencies. 
2.6.8.  Collaborate with the DIE and DAF staffs on policy to integrate threat models into 
DAF M&S. 
2.6.8.1.  Participate as a member of the DAF M&S Executive Steering Group. 
2.6.8.2.  Participate as a member of the DAF M&S Council. 
2.6.9.  Ensure collaboration between the IC and DAF requirements, planning, and 
acquisition communities to develop and sustain warfighting capabilities. 
2.6.10.  Ensures unity of effort for generating, prioritizing, and managing IC requirements 
submissions among ISR MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA, AFMC, SSC, and other 
intelligence stakeholder communities. 
2.6.11.  Oversee DAF intelligence supportability/interoperability by identifying shortfalls, 
risks, and issues in production, planning, and joint processes, to include resource planning 
shortfalls in the Planning, Programming, Budget and Execution processes. 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
7 
2.6.12.  Manage intelligence requirements, provide substantive intelligence support, 
oversee acquisition intelligence support, and provide oversight for all SAPs IAW AFPD 
16-7, Special Access Programs. 
2.6.13.  Coordinate on command and subordinate unit supplements, guides, and manuals 
that result from this instruction. 
2.6.14.  Establish ISR-specific guidance and standards to manage acquisition intelligence 
data during the acquisition life cycle. 
2.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Requirements, and Deputy Chief of Space 
Operations for Strategy, Plans, Programs, Requirements, and Analysis will: 
2.7.1.  Set policy and guidance for the capability development enterprise to integrate 
intelligence into capability development activities. 
2.7.2.  Coordinate with Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) and Deputy Chief of Space 
Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2) to do the following: 
2.7.2.1.  Participate in the development and review of requirements, planning, 
capability development, and acquisition decisions/documents (DAF and Joint). 
2.7.2.2.  Adequately address intelligence interests and concepts of operations and have 
appropriate intelligence content. 
2.8.  DAF Service Intelligence Centers (SICs) NASIC and NSIC will:  
2.8.1.  Ensure intelligence products are timely and tailored for capability development, test, 
R&D, and the acquisition life cycle IAW IC and DoD-assigned production responsibilities 
and IAW DAF requirements/priorities.  (T-2) 
2.8.2.  Identify, train, and equip unit members to integrate intelligence into capability 
development, R&D, test, and the acquisition life cycle.  (T-2) 
2.8.2.1.  Produce/integrate intelligence products into DAF capability development, 
R&D, test, and the acquisition life cycle IAW IC and DoD-assigned production 
responsibilities and IAW DAF requirements/priorities.  (T-2) 
2.8.2.1.1.  SICs will: 
2.8.2.1.1.1.  Produce timely, accurate, and relevant threat forecasts, roadmaps, 
assessments (except counterintelligence assessment), technical intelligence, 
threat modules and scenarios to keep programs/projects threat-informed and 
enable them to make timely adjustment that outpace evolving threats.  (T-2) 
2.8.2.1.1.2.  Make intelligence products easily discoverable and accessible 
across security classification levels as required, to include technical intelligence 
products.  Ensure products and data easily integrate with customer digital 
ecosystems to the maximum extent possible.  (T-2) 
2.8.3.  Engage MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and AFMC or SSC (materiel-focused 
commands), including program/project offices and capability development offices, to 
establish and maintain robust and ongoing dialogue (formal and informal) and partnerships 
(formal and informal) regarding intelligence that supports the program/project.  (T-2) 
8 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
2.8.3.1.  Support formal partnerships between SIC and non-SIC entities IAW 
established DAF frameworks and DAF and IC governance to develop technical 
intelligence if/when the IC cannot meet prioritized technical intelligence requirements.  
(T-2) 
2.8.3.1.1.  SICs will, IAW DoDI 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) 
Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A) and Defense Intelligence 
Enterprise Management guidance: 
2.8.3.1.1.1.  Validate non-US forces and capabilities technical intelligence 
developed by SICs or formal partnership with SICs based on IC assigned 
production responsibilities. (T-2) 
2.8.3.1.1.2.  Create frameworks, create governance, and coordinate with the 
Defense Modeling and Simulation Intelligence Analysis Committee to facilitate 
the application of quality and tradecraft standards for M&S production covered 
under formal partnerships. (T-2) 
2.8.4.  Establish and execute unit procedures for critical intelligence parameters (CIP) 
monitoring and breach forecasting IAW DoDI 5000.86 and the JCIDS Manual, to include:  
1) continuous monitoring, which is resource dependent; 2) periodic, comprehensive 
reviews/updates; 3) CIP breach forecast notifications as able, such as issuing warnings 
before a breach to enable programs to adjust and stay ahead of the threat; and 4) CIP breach 
notifications.  (T-2) 
2.8.5.  Develop forward-looking production plans that anticipate future critical DAF intel 
needs.  (T-2) 
2.8.6.  Participate in production gap prioritization and risk management.  (T-2) 
2.8.7.  Participate in the DAF M&S Council and subordinate working groups.  (T-2) 
2.9.  MAJCOMs, FLDCOM, Direct Reporting Unit (DRU), and Field Operating Agency 
(FOA) Commanders will: 
2.9.1.  Ensure intelligence integrates into every phase of capability development, test, 
R&D, and the acquisition life cycle IAW this instruction.  (T-2) 
2.9.2.  Identify, train, and equip ISR subject matter experts, AIAs, and process owners to 
integrate intelligence into all requirements and capability development processes.  (T-2) 
2.9.3.  Coordinate with AFMC or SSC (materiel-focused commands) to determine 
intelligence sensitivity for programs/projects.  Advise program offices and MAJCOMs, 
FLDCOM, DRU, FOA (for new programs) on levels of support required to execute 
acquisition intelligence responsibilities.  (T-2) 
2.9.3.1.  Ensure the transfer of acquisition intelligence responsibility from MAJCOM, 
FLDCOM, DRU, FOA to AFMC or SSC occurs upon PEO acceptance of the program.  
Coordinate with AFMC or SSC intelligence to determine acquisition intelligence life 
cycle support required for intelligence-sensitive programs/projects.  (T-2) 
2.9.3.2.  Integrate future threat assessments during requirements determination and 
capability development, fielding, support, and sustainment. Determine necessary 
intelligence support, data dependencies, and infrastructure to address the threats.  (T-2) 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
9 
2.9.3.3.  Coordinate with AFMC or SSC, service intelligence centers, and other IC 
agencies as required to develop CIPs IAW with command guidance.  (T-2) 
2.9.3.4.  Ensure timely, complete, sufficient, and accurate acquisition intelligence is 
provided and integrated with capabilities-based planning, requirements development 
processes, and life cycle Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution processes 
and forums.  (T-2) 
2.9.3.5.  Ensure strategic plans and other capability development and acquisition-
related documents, studies, and analyses integrate and fully address ISR requirements 
and constraints.  (T-2) 
2.9.3.6.  Submit requirements and assist in the justification of new requirements for 
modifications to fielded programs based on emerging threats or technologies that 
jeopardize mission effectiveness or capability survival.  (T-2) 
2.9.4.  Participate in the requirements framework to identify and generate requirements, 
and advocate for mission systems, operational needs, models, simulations, and capability 
requirements development that support DAF processes.  (T-2) 
2.9.4.1.  Identify and manage risks that result from requirements production planning 
shortfalls, to include resource planning shortfalls in Planning, Programming, 
Budgeting, and Execution processes.  (T-2) 
2.9.4.2.  Coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) or Deputy Chief of Space 
Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2) (their staffs), as appropriate to identify risks and 
issues for presentation and engagement in joint technical intelligence requirements 
processes.  (T-2) 
2.9.5.  Draft and coordinate the intelligence content for DAF, JCIDS, and other capability 
development, requirements, acquisition, and program planning processes and related 
documents.  Ensure completeness of intelligence supportability, impact, and threat content.  
(T-2) 
2.9.5.1.  For program intelligence certification, coordinate with the Deputy Chief of 
Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects Operations 
(AF/A2/6) on capability development, requirements, acquisition, and program 
planning processes and related documents (DAF and JCIDS).  Ensure completeness of 
intelligence supportability, impact, and threat content.  (T-2) 
2.9.5.2.  Coordinate requirements analysis to identify ISR-related deficiencies, and 
guide efforts to resolve those deficiencies.  (T-2) 
2.9.6.  Identify and submit intelligence requirements to initiate intelligence collection and 
production that supports programs throughout the program lifecycle. 
2.9.7.  Coordinate with AFOTEC intelligence offices and Defense Intelligence Enterprise 
organizations to ensure development of appropriate threat lists/scenarios that support initial 
operational test and evaluation (OT&E).  (T-2) 
2.9.8.  Provide tailored, command-specific guidance on threat analysis collaboration 
methods, forums, and best practices IAW this instruction.  Participate in acquisition 
10 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
intelligence forums as appropriate to support intelligence requirements, resourcing, 
assessment of data shortfalls, and development of courses of action to address shortfalls.  
(T-2) 
2.9.9.  Work with Acquisition Intelligence Analyst Certification Program (AIACP) 
program manager to identify AIA positions for coding and ensure AIAs are certified IAW 
the program requirements.  (T-2) 
2.10.  Air Force Materiel Command or Space Systems Command will: 
2.10.1.  Ensure intelligence integrates into every phase of capability development, test, 
R&D, and the acquisition life cycle (e.g., analysis of alternatives, capability requirements 
documents, market research, acquisition strategies, plans, requests for proposals/other 
transaction authority, contracts, milestones). 
2.10.2.  Ensure programs/projects are threat-informed, have intelligence supportability 
(data and infrastructure), and have interoperability with weapons systems IAW DAFI 63-
101/20-101 and AFI 61-101.  (T-2) 
2.10.3.  Ensure each program’s documented acquisition strategy includes intelligence.  
(T-2) 
2.10.4.  Coordinate with requirements owner to determine program/project intelligence 
sensitivity (if not already completed) and its impact to the acquisition life cycle and 
operational employment.  (T-2) 
2.10.5.  Ensure intelligence requirements are developed and documented in coordination 
with the requirements owners.  (T-2) 
2.10.6.  Identify, organize, train, and equip DAF professionals to execute acquisition 
intelligence activities including the provision of facilities, personnel, intelligence 
supportability, intelligence sensitivity analysis, intelligence requirements, and program 
intelligence certification IAW AIACP and command policy.  Ensure AIA are tracked, 
certified IAW certification requirements.  (T-2) 
2.10.7.  Ensure intelligence fully integrates into the decision processes for the acquisition 
life cycle.  Oversee and review Intelligence Supportability Analysis (ISA) (T-2) 
2.10.8.  Ensure each program’s documented acquisition strategy includes an intelligence 
integration strategy, plan, or course of action to meet program/project objectives in a cost-
effective manner.  (T-2) 
2.10.9.  Make program threat analysis products and data easily discoverable and accessible 
across security classification levels.  Include the ability to easily integrate products with 
customer digital ecosystems to the maximum extent possible. (T-2) 
2.10.10.  Coordinate with MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA, service intelligence centers, 
and IC as required to develop new CIPs IAW with command guidance.  Help existing CIPs 
to mature during capability development and the acquisition life cycle as they evolve based 
upon program maturation.  (T-2) 
2.10.11.  Identify and submit intelligence requirements to initiate intelligence collection 
and production that support programs throughout the lifecycle.  (T-2) 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
11 
2.10.12.  Coordinate transition of intelligence requirements, responsibilities, and resources 
as programs transition between research sites, centers, or other organizations.  (T-2) 
2.10.13.  Collaborate with IC on threat forecasting to identify impacts on acquisition 
programs or long-term viability (mission effectiveness and survivability) of DAF weapon 
systems in the sustainment phase.  Coordinate with MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and 
SICs to develop justification for threat-driven modifications to the program.  (T-2) 
2.10.14.  Ensure programs/projects receive threat intelligence as needed throughout their 
life cycle to support in-service upgrades relevant to adversaries, reprogramming, and 
capability advancements.  (T-2) 
2.10.15.  Review information provided via AF Form 1067, Modification Proposals IAW 
DAFI 63-101/20-101 for systems in sustainment.  Determine whether the identified 
deficiencies/suggested modifications are intelligence sensitive and require intelligence 
support.  (T-2) 
2.10.16.  Draft/coordinate the intelligence content of acquisition and program planning 
documents.  Ensure completeness of intelligence supportability, impact, and threat content.  
(T-2) 
2.10.16.1.  Identify and submit intelligence requirements to initiate intelligence 
collection and production that support programs throughout the lifecycle.  (T-2) 
2.10.16.2.  Coordinate requirements analysis to identify deficiencies, and guide efforts 
to resolve those deficiencies.  (T-2) 
2.10.16.3.  Provide intelligence health assessments to support acquisition and 
requirements (intelligence certification IAW JCIDS Manual) review processes.  (T-1) 
2.10.17.  Identify and manage risks and issues that result from intelligence requirements 
production planning shortfalls, to include resource planning shortfalls in Planning, 
Programming, Budgeting, and Execution processes.  (T-2) 
2.10.18.  Provide tailored, command-specific guidance on threat analysis collaboration 
methods, forums, and best practices IAW this instruction.  Participate in acquisition 
intelligence forums as appropriate (e.g., foreign intelligence threat forums and intelligence 
supportability forums) to support derivation of intelligence requirements, intelligence 
costing, assessment of data shortfalls and development of courses of action to address 
shortfalls.  (T-2) 
2.10.19.  Provide intelligence and forecasting subject matter expertise that supports DAF 
Foreign Materiel Sales program requirements. 
2.10.20.  Coordinate with AFOTEC intelligence offices and DIE organizations to ensure 
development of appropriate threat lists/scenarios that support initial OT&E.  (T-2) 
2.11.  Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) and Space Training and 
Readiness Command (STARCOM) will: 
2.11.1.  Ensure intelligence integrates into operational test and experimentation planning 
and conduct to support the acquisition life cycle.  (T-2) 
12 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
2.11.2.  Identify, organize, train, and equip DAF professionals to execute acquisition 
intelligence activities IAW this instruction, to include the provision of facilities, personnel, 
and other resources.  (T-2) 
2.11.3.  Ensure OT&E personnel, to include Test Directors, Program Managers, and 
analysts, are threat-informed with threat analysis IAW this instruction and DAFI 63-
101/20-101.  (T-2) 
2.11.3.1.  Coordinate with program AIAs to ensure consensus program threat analysis 
products and data are available and incorporated in test design and planning.  (T-2) 
2.11.3.2.  Ensure OT&E program threat/target lists, and threat environments 
adequately address intelligence dependencies and operationally realistic threat 
representations.  (T-2) 
2.11.3.3.  Participate in the DAF M&S Council and subordinate working groups. 
2.11.3.4.  Participate in program threat analysis collaboration and working groups, 
intelligence supportability, and other acquisition intelligence forums as appropriate.  
(T-2) 
2.11.3.5.  Coordinate with MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and AFMC or SSC 
program AIAs to identify and document any tailored threats or intelligence support 
requirements for OT&E beyond those in the Test and Evaluation Master Plan.  (T-2) 
2.12.  Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) will:  
2.12.1.  Ensure counterintelligence products and services are integrated into capability 
development, test, R&D, and the acquisition life cycle.  (T-2) 
2.12.2.  Collaborate with AFMC or SSC (materiel-focused commands) acquisition 
intelligence focal points to provide input for program protection planners IAW DoDI O-
5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and 
Acquisition (RDA).  (T-2) 
2.12.3.  Coordinate with MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and AFMC or SSC 
intelligence focal points to identify counterintelligence topics, vulnerabilities, and 
collaboration opportunities.  (T-2) 
3.  FORCE DEVLEOPMENT 
3.1.  Qualification Training.  Qualification is an ongoing process to attain the knowledge, 
skills, and experiences ensuring personnel are qualified and current to perform their assigned 
duties. Intelligence qualification training, consisting of Initial Qualification Training (IQT) and 
Mission Qualification Training (MQT), follows a building block approach.  After completion 
of MQT, Continuation Training ensures maintenance and progression of knowledge, skills, 
and abilities of intelligence personnel. Specialized Training addresses additional intelligence 
tasks required by some positions above and beyond the baseline MQT requirements. Training 
programs will comply with AFI 14-1020. 
3.1.1.  Initial Qualification Training. IQT begins upon entry into a mission set and 
establishes a foundational set of skills developed to a level of detail common across a 
mission set, without focusing on any organization's specific mission execution. IQT is 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
13 
defined as Acquisition Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU). All personnel will 
complete IQT during the first year of assignment to their unit.  (T-2) 
3.1.2.  Mission Qualification Training. MQT applies specific organization and mission 
context to skills gained in IQT and provides additional training to achieve mission ready 
qualification. MQT is an organization’s program which includes unique local area 
procedures and ensures trainees to demonstrate knowledge and task proficiency. (T-2) 
3.1.3.  Continuation Training promotes a continuous learning environment, ensuring that 
intelligence personnel are always qualified and current to perform their assigned duties by 
maintaining proficiency in the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities. In most cases, this 
is simply documenting activities individuals conduct on a regular basis as part of their duty. 
Continuation Training is an organization’s program which focuses on maintaining 
perishable skills for currency of knowledge and task proficiency. (T-3) 
3.1.4.  Specialized Training. Specialized Training addresses additional skills necessary to 
carry out the organization’s uniquely assigned mission(s). Specialized Training 
requirements are in addition to baseline mission qualification. (T-3) 
3.1.5.  Difference Training. Individuals moving to a similar mission set as determined by 
the lead command are assessed by the gaining organization to determine their previous 
training and experience level. If their previous IQT meets current requirements, the 
individual may be allowed to “proficiency advance” via an abbreviated in-house IQT or 
proceed directly to MQT. (T-3) 
3.2.  AIA Certification Program (AIACP).  The AIACP validates that AIAs receive the 
proper training, education, and experience required to effectively execute AIA duties. The 
DAF Guidance Memorandum for AIACP governs execution of the program. It is encouraged 
for all personnel that perform intelligence functions supporting acquisition programs and 
processes and is mandatory for all personnel in AIA-coded billets, which are coded with the 
AIA special experience identifier. Personnel assigned to AIA-coded billets should complete 
AIACP within 18 months of assignment to the position. Personnel are awarded the AIA special 
experience identifier upon AIACP completion. (T-3) 
3.3.  Discretionary Training.  MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and AFMC or SSC execute 
MQT at their discretion to train AIAs on duties according to specific positions or functions.  
Commands also execute Continuation Training and Specialized Training at their discretion to 
develop further expertise and unique skills that are not covered in IQT or MQT. (T-3) 
 
LEAH G. LAUDERBACK, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, 
Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects Operations 
14 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
10 U.S.C. § 4211, Acquisition Strategy  
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework, 08 June 2022 
DoDI 5000.74, Defense Acquisition Services, 24 June 2021 
DoDI 5000.75_DAFI 63-144 Business Systems Requirements and Acquisition¸ 26 January 2023 
DoDI 5000.80_AFI 63-146, Operation of Middle Tier of Acquisition (MTA), 07 May 2021 
DoDI 5000.81_DAFI 63-147, Urgent Capability Acquisition, 04 February 2021 
DoDI 5000.82, Acquisition of Information Technology, 01 June 2023 
DoDI 5000.83_DAFI 63-113, Technology and Program Protection to Maintain Technological 
Advantage, 08 March 2022 
DoDI 5000.85_AFI 63-151, Major Capability Acquisition, 19 August 2022 
DoDI 5000.86, Acquisition Intelligence, 11 September 2020 
DoDI 5000.87_AFI 63-150, Operation of the Software Acquisition Pathway, 11August 2021 
DoDI 5000.89_DAFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 9 December 2021 
DoDI 5000.90, Cybersecurity for Acquisition Decision Authorities and Program Managers, 31 
December 2020. 
DoDI 5000.97, Digital Engineering, 21 December 2023 
DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Identification and Protection Within the 
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E), 01 October 2020 
DoDI 5205.11, Management, Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs 
(SAPs), 4 February 2020 
DoDI O-5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and 
Acquisition (RDA), 15 July 2020 
DoDD 3000.16, Vendor Threat Mitigation, 6 July 2022 
DoDD 5205.07 Volume 1, Special Access Program (SAP) Security Manual: General 
Procedures, 30 September 2020 
DoDM 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence Activities, 08 August 
2016 
CJCSI 3318.01, Acquisition Intelligence Requirements Annual Priorities and Risk Management 
Framework, 30 April 2020 
CJCSI 5123.01I, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council and Implementation of the 
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 30 October 2021 
AFPD 16-7, Special Access Programs, 21 November 2017 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
15 
AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 August 2018 
DAFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation, 21 May 2021 
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Documentation and Validation, 27 April 
2021 
AFI 14-404, Intelligence Oversight, 03 September 2019 
AFI 14-1020, Intelligence Mission Qualification and Readiness, 08 Nov 2017 
DAFI 16-701_DAFGM2023-01, Management, Administration and Oversight of Special Access 
Programs, 15 February 2023 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 28 July 2021 
AFI 36-2670, Total Force Development, 07 May 2024 
AFI 61-101, Management of Science and Technology, 14 March 2013 
DAFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 16 February 2024 
DAFI 90-160, Publications and Forms Management, 21 June 2023 
AFI 99-114-S, Foreign Materiel Program, 22 March 2019 
DAFMAN 14-401, Intelligence Analysis and Targeting Tradecraft/Data Standards, 26 May 
2021 
AFMAN 14-405, Multiple Source, Discipline, and Domain ISR, 11 May 2020 
ICD 203, Analytic Standards, 21 December 2022 
ICD 206, Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, 22 January 2015 
ICD 208, Maximizing the Utility of Analytic Products, 9 January 2017 
Directive-type Memorandum (DTM) -18-003 – Prohibition on Providing Funds to the Enemy 
and Authorization of Additional Access to Records. 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 15 April 2022 
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposals, 1 November 1999 
Acronyms 
AF—United States Air Force 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFLCMC—Air Force Life-Cycle Management Center 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations 
16 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory 
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command 
AIA—Acquisition Intelligence Analysis 
AIACP—Acquisition Intelligence Analysis Certification Program 
CI—Counterintelligence 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DC3—Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center 
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency 
DIAI—Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel 
and Facilities 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
IAW—In Accordance With 
IC—Intelligence Community 
ICD—Intelligence Community Directive 
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit 
IHA—Intelligence Health Assessment 
ISA—Intelligence Supportability Analysis 
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
IQT—Initial Qualification Training 
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System 
KSA—Key System Attribute 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
M&S—Modeling & Simulation 
MQT—Mission Qualification Training 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
17 
PEO—Program Executive Officer 
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System 
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test & Evaluation 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition 
STARCOM—Space Training and Readiness Command 
T-0—Tier 0 
T-1—Tier 1 
T-2—Tier 2 
T-3—Tier 3 
TAWG—Technology and Alternatives Working Group 
Terms 
Acquisition Intelligence—The application of intelligence such as foundational military 
intelligence about adversary threats and planning for intelligence dependency in acquisition 
projects, programs, and operations. This is not a new intelligence discipline. (DoDI 5000.86). 
Acquisition Intelligence Analyst (AIA)—AIAs are designated DAF professionals of any career 
specialty, not just intelligence, who have completed the AIA certification requirements IAW DAFI 
14-411, and whose primary responsibility deals with integrating intelligence into 
acquisition/materiel processes. Acquisition intelligence activities include, among others: threat 
support, to ensure acquisition functions are fully threat informed with authoritative intelligence; 
intelligence supportability analysis, to identify intelligence necessary to successfully acquire and 
employ DAF capabilities; ISR interoperability reviews, to ensure materiel systems can integrate 
with the ISR ecosystem; and intelligence production requirements development, to levy the 
requirements for specific types of intelligence to support materiel functions or systems. AIAs will 
abide by all intelligence oversite requirements. 
Analysis of Alternatives—Assessment of potential materiel solutions to satisfy the capability 
need documented in the approved Initial Capabilities Document. It focuses on identification and 
assesses potential materiel solutions, key trades between cost and capability, total life-cycle cost, 
including sustainment, schedule, concepts of operations, and overall risk. The AoA will inform 
and be informed by affordability analysis, cost analysis, sustainment considerations, early systems 
engineering analyses, threat projections, and market research. It supports a decision on the most 
cost-effective solution that has a reasonable likelihood of providing the validated capability 
requirement(s). The AoA is normally conducted during the Materiel Solution Analysis phase, is 
key input to the Capability Development Document, and supports the materiel solution decision at 
Milestone A. The AoA may be updated for subsequent decision points and milestone reviews if 
design changes impact AoA assumptions. (DoDI 5000.02T). 
Authoritative—An intelligence product that has been published/posted under the auspices of the 
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program or equivalent IC programs. It has been produced by the 
intelligence element recognized in the Defense Intelligence Analysis Program as the authority for 
that kind of information, vetted and adjudicated within that element, and is based on reliable and 
trusted analysis tools and processes. 
18 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Capability Development Document—Specifies capability requirements in terms of 
developmental Key Performance Parameters, Key System Attributes, Additional Performance 
Attributes, and other related information necessary to support development of one or more 
increments of a materiel capability solution. (DoD 5000.02 JCIDS Manual) 
Critical Intelligence Parameter (CIP)—A threat capability or threshold established 
collaboratively by the requirements sponsor and the component capability developer, changes to 
which could critically impact the effectiveness and survivability of the proposed system. (DIAI 
5000.002) 
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP)—DIA centrally manages defense intelligence 
analysis and production using a distributed analytical process known as the Defense Intelligence 
Analysis Program. This program integrates general military intelligence and scientific and 
technical intelligence production conducted at DIA, Combatant Commands, and service 
intelligence centers. 
Defense Intelligence Enterprise—. The organizations, infrastructure, and measures to include 
policies, processes, procedures, and products of the Intelligence, CI, and Security Components of 
the Joint Staff, Combatant Commands, Military Departments, and other DoD elements that 
perform National Intelligence, Defense Intelligence, intelligence-related, CI, and security 
functions, as well as those organizations under the authority, direction, and control of the 
USD(I&S). (DoDD 5143.01) 
Foreign Owned, Controlled or Influenced (FOCI)—A U.S. company is considered to be 
operating under FOCI whenever a foreign interest has the power, direct or indirect, whether or not 
exercised, and whether or not exercisable, to direct or decide matters affecting the management of 
operations of that company in a manner which may result in unauthorized access to classified 
information or may adversely affect the performance of classified contracts. (DoDI 5205.87) 
Air Force Materiel Command/Space Systems Command—The command designated by the 
AF Acquisition Executive to manage an acquisition program. The intelligence support to the 
manager of an acquisition program usually resides with the Product Center/Logistics Center/Lab 
Research Site Intelligence Division/Branch. (DAFI 63-101_20-101) 
Initial Capabilities Document—A category of capability requirements documents that specifies 
one or more capability requirements and associated capability gaps that represent unacceptable 
operational risk if left unmitigated. It recommends partially or wholly mitigating identified 
capability gap(s) with a materiel capability solution, or some combination of materiel and non-
materiel solutions. A validated ICD is an entrance criterion necessary for each Materiel 
Development Decision (MDD) (JCIDS Manual). 
Intelligence Certification—An assessment of the integration of intelligence and a statement of 
adequacy as to whether the IC can provide the required support to the acquisition and operational 
communities. The certification is the result of collaboration and analysis that leverage the expertise 
and unique perspective of all applicable offices within Combatant Commands; intelligence and 
security-aligned combat support agencies; Service Intelligence Production Centers; Military 
Department Intelligence and Counterintelligence (CI) organizations; and JS/J-2. (JCIDS Manual) 
Intelligence Community—All departments or agencies of a government that are concerned with 
intelligence activity, either in an oversight, managerial, support, or participatory role. Also called 
IC. (JP 2-0) 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
19 
Intelligence Costing—–An integral part of the ISA is the estimation of costs associated with the 
Intelligence resources required to support the acquisition programs.  The lack of understanding of 
these costs can result in scheduling delays, costly workarounds, and unplanned adjustments to 
Operations and Maintenance budgets. 
Intelligence Mission Data (IMD)—DoD intelligence used for programming platform mission 
systems in development, testing, operations, and sustainment including, but not limited to, the 
functional areas of signatures, electronic warfare integrated reprogramming (EWIR), order of 
battle (OOB), characteristics and performance (C&P), and geospatial intelligence (GEOINT). 
(DoDD 5250.01) 
Intelligence Requirement—1. Any subject, general or specific, upon which there is a need for 
the collection of information, or the production of intelligence. 2. A requirement for intelligence 
to fill a gap in the command’s knowledge or understanding of the operational environment or threat 
forces. (JP 2-0) 
Intelligence sensitive—Any program/initiative that produces, consumes, processes, or influences 
intelligence information, thereby requiring threat or intelligence infrastructure support. If it is 
likely that, in the future, the program would produce, consume, process, or influence intelligence 
information, it should be considered intelligence sensitive. 
Intelligence Supportability—The availability, suitability, and sufficiency of intelligence 
information and capabilities to support the requirements or system defined in capability 
development documents. (DoDI 5000.86). 
Intelligence Supportability Analysis (ISA)——The process by which the DAF intelligence, 
acquisition, and requirement communities collaborate to identify, document, and plan for 
intelligence requirements and supporting infrastructure necessary to successfully acquire and 
employ DAF capabilities, thereby ensuring intelligence integration and supportability. (DAFI 63-
101/20-101 and JCIDS Manual) 
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)—Term referring to the activity that 
synchronizes and integrates the planning and operation of sensors, assets, and processing, 
exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of current and future operations. (JP 2-
0) 
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)—–System providing a 
baseline for documentation, review, and validation of capability requirement across the DAF. 
JCIDS Documents (—Initial Capabilities Document, Capability Development Document) —–
IAW CJCSI 3170.01 and the JCIDS Manual, DIA validates the threat and intelligence 
supportability information in all JROC Interest, JCB Interest, and Joint Integration Initial 
Capabilities Document, and Capability Development Document through the intelligence 
certification process (ref. CJCSI 5123.01I).  For programs with Joint Information or Independent 
Joint Potential Designators, which DIA does not review or validate, DoD components can utilize 
DIA-validated threat reference information and data contained in DoD service validated and 
authoritative intelligence products for their JCIDS documents. 
Life Cycle—The span of time associated with a technology, concept, system, subsystem, 
capability, initiative, or end-item that begins with the conception and initial development of the 
20 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
requirement, continues through development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, until the time it is 
either consumed in use or disposed of as being excess to all known materiel requirements. 
Life Cycle Mission Data Plan—The program manager's plan for how the program manager and 
other organizations will address specific program needs for Intelligence Mission Data (IMD). It 
contains the results of IMD planning and spans the entire lifecycle of an IMD-dependent 
acquisition program. The LMDP potentially influences programmatic decisions based on the 
availability of IMD over the life of the program. (DoDI 5000.02). 
Major Defense Acquisition Program (MDAP)—The term “major defense acquisition program” 
means a Department of Defense acquisition program that is not a highly sensitive classified 
program (as determined by the Secretary of Defense) and— (A) that is designated by the Secretary 
of Defense as a major defense acquisition program; or (B) in the case of a program that is not a 
program for the acquisition of an automated information system (either a product or a service), 
that is estimated by the Secretary of Defense for all increments of the program to require an 
eventual total expenditure for research, development, and test and evaluation of more than $525 
million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 constant dollars or, for procurement, of more than $3.065 billion 
in FY 2020 constant dollars.(10 U.S. Code 4201) 
Middle Tier Acquisition—An Acquisition pathway is used to rapidly develop (within 2-5 years) 
fieldable prototypes within an acquisition program to demonstrate new capabilities and rapidly 
field production quantities of systems with proven technologies that require minimal development. 
(DoDI 5000.80) 
Milestone—The point at which a recommendation is made, and approval sought regarding starting 
or continuing an acquisition program, i.e., proceeding to the next phase. Milestones established by 
DoDI 5000.85 are: Milestone A that approves entry into the Technology Maturation and Risk 
Reduction (TMRR) phase, Milestone B that approves entry into the Engineering and 
Manufacturing Development (EMD) phase, and Milestone C that approves entry into the 
Production and Deployment (P&D) phase. (DoDI 5000.85) 
Planning and direction, Collection, Processing and Exploitation, Analysis and Production, 
and Dissemination—Basis of DoD intelligence gathering. Planning and direction, Collection, 
Processing and Exploitation, Analysis and Production, and Dissemination takes raw collected data 
and turns it into usable information. Planning and direction starts by developing a plan to obtain 
intelligence based on a commander's (in this case a military commander or some other national 
leader) guidance. The collection step is the physical act of acquiring data. Processing and 
exploitation convert raw data into usable form. Analysis and production distill the collected data 
for intelligence value and delivering the desired product. Finally, the intelligence information is 
disseminated to the senior leadership or customer. (JP 2-0) 
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBE)—A cyclic process 
containing four distinct but interrelated phases: Planning—Produces a fiscal forecast, planning 
guidance, and program guidance; Programming—Creates the DAF portion of the DoD's Future 
Years Defense Program (FYDP) by defining and examining alternative forces and weapons and 
support systems; Budgeting—Formulates and controls resource requirements, allocation, and use; 
and Execution—Measures and validates the performance of the planning, programming, and 
budgeting phases. (DoD 7000.14-R) 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
21 
Program—Technology demonstration, research effort, development planning activity, quick 
reaction capability, study, concept, initiative, system, modification, sustainment effort or upgrade 
involving intelligence support during research, development, acquisition, test, modernization, or 
sustainment. 
Project—An R&D activity or special activity involving the acquisition of capabilities done in and 
sometimes outside the standard acquisition life cycle. 
Program Management Directive—The official Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, document used to 
convey the guidance and direction of the decision authority and identify the various organizations, 
along with their essential responsibility, for ensuring the success of a program or other effort. 
PMDs are required for funded program contained in the Air Force Acquisition Program Master 
List. (Defense Acquisition University Glossary) 
Program Protection Plan or Planning—A living plan to guide efforts to manage the risks to 
Critical Program Information (CPI) and mission critical functions and components as well as 
program and system information. This milestone acquisition document captures both systems 
security engineering (SSE) and security activities and the results of the analyses as the program 
and system become more defined. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook and DAFI63-101/20-101) 
Science and Technology Protection Plan—A management tool to guide Science & Technology 
(S&T) protection activities involving applicable critical technology areas and applicable horizontal 
protection guidance. S&T protection activities and the implemented protection measures inform 
the program protection activities and protection measures when they transition to an acquisition 
program. S&T protection activities include protection requirements in legally binding agreements 
such as FAR-based solicitations, broad agency announcements, and Other Transaction Authority 
agreements, as appropriate, preparing updates to the S&T Protection Plan as technology matures, 
when the threat changes, or there is a compromise. The DoD Component determines the S&T 
Protection Plan approval authority. (DoD Technology and Program Protection Guidebook) 
Special Access Program (SAP)—A sensitive acquisition, intelligence, or operations and support 
program, that imposes need-to-know and access controls beyond those normally provided for 
access to classified information. Also called SAP. (JP 3-05) 
Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM)—The process for managing risk by identifying, 
assessing, and mitigating threats, vulnerabilities, and disruptions to the DoD supply chain from 
beginning to end to ensure mission effectiveness. Successful SCRM maintains the integrity of 
products, services, people, and technologies, and ensures the undisrupted flow of product, materiel, 
information, and finances across the lifecycle of a weapon or support system. DoD SCRM 
encompasses all sub-sets of SCRM, such as cybersecurity, software assurance, obsolescence, 
counterfeit parts, foreign ownership of sub-tier vendors, and other categories of risk that affect the 
supply chain. (Committee on National Security Systems Directive 505 Supply Chain Risk 
Management 29 August 2017) 
Technical Intelligence Data—Data required for Departmental decision analysis and capability 
development, design, operation, test, evaluation, and training. Technical Intelligence Data includes 
threat capabilities, threat Modeling and Simulation (M&S) software models, Signatures, 
Characteristics and Performance, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming and other 
technical data types as may be required to perform the specified tasks. 
 
22 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Attachment 2 
ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
A2.1.  Responsibilities.  Acquisition Intelligence Analysts are the focal point for acquisition 
intelligence, effectively integrating intelligence into capability development, R&D, test, and the 
acquisition life cycle. The integration of intelligence activities is the collective responsibility of 
MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA (e.g., Air Combat Command, Space Operations Center, 
STARCOM, Air Force Special Operations Command, Air Mobility Command, and Air Force 
Global Strike Command) and materiel focused AFMC and SSC.  This includes command 
leadership from functional directorates executing capabilities development and senior 
program/project portfolio offices, down to individual program/project managers, engineers, and 
AIAs. 
A2.2.  Tenets.  Effective acquisition intelligence is: 
A2.2.1.  Relevant  , providing meaningful support that enables program/project decision 
makers to make proactive decisions in advance of the threats. 
A2.2.2.  Iterative  , providing timely intelligence inputs to the materiel effort along acquisition 
life cycle timelines in an evolving fashion dictated by materiel development and sustainment 
needs.  Although many existing DoD and DAF policies governing the acquisition life cycle 
mandate discrete events, times, and artifacts in which intelligence is procedurally integrated, 
acquisition intelligence must be part of day-to-day capability development, test, R&D, and 
acquisition life cycle activities above and beyond episodic touchpoints, starting at requirements 
development. 
A2.2.3.  Tailored  , focusing products and processes in a timely manner to meet the needs of 
the users while reducing extraneous information. 
A2.2.4.  Collaborative  , requiring partnership across acquisition, intelligence, operations, 
counterintelligence, cybersecurity, and requirements communities to identify and resolve 
intelligence issues related to new and evolving programs/projects. 
A2.2.5.  Discoverable  , so that all of those with the collective responsibility for capability 
development, R&D, test, and the acquisition life cycle have access to the best available and 
consensus analysis of relevant threats. 
A2.3.  Requirements.  The following conditions are necessary for intelligence to be effectively 
integrated within acquisition life cycle processes: 
A2.3.1.  The analysis & production of foundational intelligence with an emphasis on technical 
intelligence data and threat systems forecasts. 
A2.3.2.  Subject to data owner approval, a comprehensive understanding of, and complete, 
access to 1) all aspects of the supported capability development or acquisition life cycle 
activity, program/project, or function; 2) the relevant intelligence applicable to the supported 
capability development, life cycle activity, program/project, or function to include applicable 
IC Controlled Access Programs and Special Access Programs. 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
23 
A2.3.3.  Integration of intelligence activities into all capability development and acquisition 
life cycle processes and selected documents (e.g., Initial Capabilities Document, Capabilities 
Development Document) throughout the acquisition life cycle of the program/project. 
A2.3.4.  Tailored application of intelligence data and processes for each capability 
development and life cycle activity, program, or function. 
A2.3.5.  Trained AIAs assigned to organizations conducting capability development, test, 
R&D, and acquisition life cycle activities who have regular access to program/project decision 
authorities and are part of program/project decision making bodies/events to inform 
program/project risk, cost, schedule, and performance with relevant and timely intelligence. 
A2.3.6.  Integration with the command’s intelligence and capabilities development staffs to 
ensure Initial Capabilities Document and Capabilities Development Document contain 
requirements to mitigate known and expected future threats, and that these threat assessments 
are accurate/thorough. 
A2.4.  Intelligence Sensitivity Determination.  A program/project is intelligence-sensitive if at 
any point in its life cycle: 1) it produces, consumes, processes, or handles intelligence information; 
or 2) it requires intelligence-related doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and 
education, personnel, facilities, and policy (DOTMLPF-P), or intelligence-related planning and 
direction, collection, processing, analysis and production, and dissemination intelligence support; 
or 3) it requires threat support to make programmatic decisions.  AIAs are responsible for 
conducting Intelligence Sensitivity Determination and working with the program/project to 
determine the risk of not integrating intelligence, and whether or not the risk is unacceptable, based 
in part on an assessment of competing demands for intelligence from the DAF, DoD, and other 
national security priorities.  The Intelligence Sensitivity Determination aids early development of 
rough-order-of-magnitude estimates for intelligence support to, and risk management of, the 
program. 
A2.5.  Intelligence Supportability Analysis (ISA).  ISA is the process by which intelligence, 
acquisitions, and requirements communities identify, plan for, and address intelligence-related 
requirements and supporting intelligence infrastructure (e.g., ISR collection and analysis, 
classified facilities, intelligence-related DOTMLP-F) necessary to successfully acquire and 
employ 
capabilities, 
thereby 
ensuring 
intelligence 
supportability 
requirements 
are 
noted/documented/addressed.  ISA will begin as early as possible and continue throughout the 
system life cycle, IAW command guidance, and shall be conducted for all intelligence-sensitive 
programs. 
A2.5.1.  IAW DAFI 63-101/20-101 a program/project will ensure ISA is fully integrated into 
program/project decisions and system engineering.  This will include working with AIAs to 
ensure ISA is integrated into major decision forums/processes to include but not limited to 
analysis of alternatives, Acquisition Strategy Panels, Initial Capabilities Document, 
Capabilities Development Document, requirements boards, and requirements oversight 
council meetings.  ISA will also serve as continuity for acquisition intelligence support to the 
program throughout its life cycle.  Program/project managers will ensure ISA helps to drive 
program/project maturation, to include closing intelligence supportability gaps. 
 
 
24 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
A2.6.  Intelligence in the Acquisition Strategy.  As described in Title 10 USC § 4211, 
Acquisition Strategy and DAFI 63-101/20-101, program managers and program AIAs will state 
the program’s approach to integrating intelligence as part of the program’s documented acquisition 
strategy, in a cost-effective manner to meet program/project objectives.  Integrating intelligence at 
the start of acquisition strategy development will provide program/project managers greater 
flexibility in risk mitigation and program/project decision making.  In the cases where a program 
will be seeking a waiver to a regulatory artifact, that waiver will be documented within the 
acquisition strategy. 
A2.7.  Test and Evaluation Master Plan.  As part of Test and Evaluation Master Plan 
development, AIAs will in conjunction with the Chief Developmental Tester (Test Manager) and 
AFOTEC/A-2N, specify the threat types required for test. 
A2.8.  Configuration Steering Board (CSB).  The CSB reviews all requirements changes and 
any significant technical configuration changes that may result in cost and schedule impacts to the 
program.  IAW DAFI 63-101/20-101, AIAs will ensure relevant intelligence factors, to include 
non-threat related factors such as ISA, are addressed at the annual program CSB or will work with 
the program managers to make them part of an out-of-cycle CSB.  The goal is to ensure 
intelligence-driven changes to the program are made early in the lifecycle, so the program outpaces 
future threats and has the requisite level of ISR interoperability.  For instances where the threat 
has placed the program’s Key Performance Parameters at risk, specifically, cases where a CIP has 
been breached, the CSB will address those issues. 
A2.9.  Intelligence Health Assessment (IHA).  IAW DAFI 63-101/20-101, the IHA is an 
assessment of a program or project intelligence supportability risks and helps ensure a 
program/project addresses risk management.  IAW command guidance, an IHA will be completed 
and reviewed by program/project managers.  When accomplished, IHA factors will be evaluated 
and incorporated into the program’s overall risk assessment.  IHAs may be directed to support 
programmatic and service level reviews.  IHAs are often event-driven and support selected 
capability development, test, R&D, and acquisition life cycle events/forums at the 
program/project, command, service, or joint-levels (program/project reviews, boards, program 
milestones, etc).  IHAs can also be updated periodically as significant intelligence related risks are 
discovered or mitigated. 
A2.10.  Technical Intelligence Data Requirements Management.  IAW CJCSI 3318.01 
Acquisition Intelligence Requirements Annual Priorities and Risk Management Framework, AF 
A2/6 and SF/S2 will function as the technical intelligence data requirements and prioritization 
manager to inform, document, and optimize Defense Intelligence Enterprise support and 
production across threat M&S software models, signatures, characteristics and performance, and 
electronic warfare integrated reprogramming.  The process for management and prioritization will 
be promulgated via separate guidance. 
A2.11.  ISR Interoperability and Capability Review.  IAW the JCIDS Manual, a capability 
being developed needs to integrate with the ISR collection and dissemination ecosystem if the 
materiel system can collect, disseminate, or must receive intelligence or other relevant battlespace 
information.  This includes the interoperability of subsystems whose primary purpose supports the 
system’s primary mission or system self-protection even if further dissemination of the collected 
data is not the subsystem’s primary purpose.  Subsystems may include components that collect or 
must receive or store adversary electromagnetic signals, geospatial information (e.g., imagery, 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
25 
terrain data, coordinates), or non-electromagnetic threat system signatures.  In coordination with 
AIAs, programs will review interoperability and capability information and report findings IAW 
command guidance. 
A2.12.  Threat Analysis and Tailoring.  Led by program managers, MAJCOM, FLDCOM, 
DRU, FOA and AFMC or SSC (materiel-focused commands) will ensure foreign intelligence 
threat analysis is fully integrated during all phases of capability development, R&D, test, and the 
acquisition life cycle with an emphasis on ensuring threat analysis informs key program/project 
decisions related to risk, cost, schedule, and performance.  AIAs will lead this effort and will “tailor 
in” threat analysis for the program/project based on its requirements and the stage of development 
or acquisition (reference DoDI 5000.85 Major Capability Acquisition, and DoDI 5000.02 
Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework).  Threat tailoring helps to ensure materiel 
systems and activities are designed from the start to outpace current and future adversary 
capabilities.  Although a collective responsibility, unit/program/project AIAs and acquisition 
intelligence functional leaders will lead the overall threat integration and will integrate threat 
intelligence into day-to-day capabilities development, test, R&D, and acquisition life cycle 
activities to include force modernization forums such as DAF capabilities planning forums, 
Acquisition Review Boards (also referred to as DAF Review Boards), Acquisition Strategy Panel, 
CSB, Milestone Decision forums, Threat Working Groups, and Intelligence Support Working 
Groups, among others. 
A2.13.  Threat Analysis Collaboration. 
A2.13.1.  Threat Analysis Collaboration Tasks.  Program AIAs will leverage and collaborate 
with experts from disparate communities and agencies (intelligence, acquisitions, operations, 
DoD) at all classification levels (including IC Controlled Accesses Programs) to formulate a 
relevant and timely threat picture that fits the needs of the program/project based on a complete 
understanding of the program’s/project’s technology attributes, Key Performance Parameters, 
and critical components/functions.  AIAs will collaborate with program personnel, (in 
coordination with the program/project manager) IC and service intelligence center threat 
analysts, counterintelligence representatives, and others to establish and document the 
program’s threat integration strategy as a subset of the program’s acquisition strategy.  AIAs 
will include a plan to: 
A2.13.1.1.  Decide on the relevant threats or classes of threats to the program/project or 
activities. 
A2.13.1.2.  Determine the digital threat representation products and data required and how 
they will integrate with program/projects (e.g., threat databases, M&S). 
A2.13.1.3.  Review and modify existing or determine new CIPs that place the 
program/project Key Performance Parameters at risk. 
A2.13.1.4.  Determine how the program/project will incorporate the threat baseline and 
update the intelligence assessments on the current and future threats (threat 
forecasts/roadmaps). 
A2.13.1.5.  Review the threat intelligence assessments and supporting data, to include 
models and simulations, used to inform the program for relevance, timeliness, quality, and 
adherence to Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) standards as required in this 
instruction (see A2.14.3.1. Analytic Standards and Integrity). 
26 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
A2.13.1.6.  Conduct detailed technical analysis to ascertain potential program/project 
vulnerabilities, risks, threat-relevant supportability requirements, ISR dependencies, and 
design recommendations. 
A2.13.1.7.  Ensure traceability and transparency so program/project offices understand 
how the data and information supporting the threat assessment was derived.  This is 
critically important when forecasting threats that do not exist yet. 
A2.13.2.  Threat Analysis Collaboration Methods.  MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and 
AFMC or SSC (materiel-focused commands) should consider providing tailored, command-
specific guidance on threat analysis collaboration methods, forums, and best practices.  
Program AIAs, program/project managers and operational test shall include the following 
personnel in threat analysis collaboration efforts:  service intelligence center threat analysts, 
test management leadership from the AFMC or SSC, user/operators, counterintelligence 
representatives (AFOSI), program and intelligence representatives from the MAJCOM, 
FLDCOM, DRU, or FOA, operational test (AFOTEC), and other program or intelligence 
personnel as the program/project managers and AIAs see fit.  Threat analysis forums can 
provide a means for programs to engage the threat analysis community and MAJCOM, 
FLDCOM, DRU, FOA and AFMC or SSC to accomplish threat analysis collaboration tasks 
and re-validate/adjust the threat integration strategy.  They can also help identify emerging 
weapons and technologies that may threaten a programs long-term viability (mission 
effectiveness and survivability).  Collaborating to identify and update program threats will help 
the justification of threat-driven modifications to the program. 
A2.13.3.  Threat Analysis & Products. 
A2.13.3.1.  Analytic Standards and Integrity.  All AIAs and production will adhere to the 
analytic standards delineated in ICD 203 Analytic Standards, ICD 206 Sourcing 
Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products and DAFMAN 14-401 Intelligence 
Analysis and Targeting Tradecraft/Data Standards.  Further, AIAs will raise concerns 
pertaining to biased analysis or lack of analytic integrity or objectivity through their chain 
of command and Ombuds channels, IAW DAFMAN 14-401.  If intelligence products are 
not available, or do not meet the needs of the program, AIAs should work with the IC to 
develop intelligence collection requirements to fill the gap.  Plans for closing gaps can be 
documented in artifacts such as the IHA, the Acquisition Strategy, Partnership Production 
Agreements, Test & Evaluation Master Plans, and M&S Strategies among others. 
A2.13.3.2.  Threat Roadmaps, Forecasts, and Scenarios.  IAW command guidance, AIAs 
in collaboration with program/project managers will integrate threat roadmaps, threat 
forecasts, and future threat scenarios to shift away from making reactive adjustments to the 
program and toward implementing proactive changes in advance of the future threat.  The 
future threat environment must be the focus of threat analysis and threat products 
supporting capability development and the acquisition life cycle, with an emphasis on the 
R&D conducted by potential adversaries and their emerging and disruptive technologies. 
A2.13.3.3.  Critical Intelligence Parameters (CIP).  A CIP clearly defines the performance 
threshold at which a foreign system or capabilities may compromise mission effectiveness 
of the U.S. system or capability based on its Key Performance Parameters and Key Systems 
Attributes.  CIPs define areas of highest priority for ongoing intelligence reporting that 
ensures program achievement of Key Performance Parameters and Key Systems 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
27 
Attributes.  The focus of a program’s intelligence integration will be threat forecasts that 
enable a program to adjust so CIPs are never breached.  Military doctrine, tactics, strategy, 
and expected employment of systems will be considered in the CIP.  CIPs should be built 
around the specific quantity, type, force mix, system capabilities, and technical 
characteristics or performance thresholds of a particular foreign capabilities of greatest 
concern to the program and IC (e.g., radar cross-section, armor type or thickness, or 
acoustic characteristics). 
A2.13.3.4.  CIP Development.  MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, FOA AIAs and/or 
program/project sponsors develop CIPs in coordination with service intelligence centers, 
and other IC agencies as required soon after system Key Performance Parameters are 
established and update them across the system life cycle (for additional information, 
reference DAFI 63-101, DoDI 5000.86, DIAI 5000.002 and CJCSI 5123.01I).  AFMC and 
SSC will mature and/or retire existing CIPs based upon program maturation and evolution 
of related threats.  The program AIA will work with the program/project manager to 
address impacts from critical threats to the program/project and discuss mitigation actions 
for CIP breaches at an annual or out-of-cycle CSB. 
A2.13.4.  Publicly Available Information & Open-Source Intelligence.  If AIAs research or 
collect publicly available information, they will do so in accordance with local command 
policies which will include the use of appropriate managed attribution tradecraft and 
technology and comply with applicable open-source intelligence policies and standards, as 
well as DoDM 5240.01 Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence Activities. 
A2.14.  Digitalized Threat Representations.  Digitalized threat representations leverage digital 
technologies and digitized data to characterize threats in a manner that augments primarily human 
threat analysis processes with software or machine-driven methods.  They include M&S, 
signatures, and databases among others.  Where possible data should be centralized, standardized 
and discoverable.  Programs/projects shall identify digitalized threat representation requirements 
early in a program/projects life cycle and actively engage and support the IC in adequately 
planning, resourcing, and coordinating production or updates. 
A2.14.1.  Threat System M&S.  IAW CJCSI 3318.01, AF/A2/6 and SF/S2 will function as the 
M&S requirements and prioritization manager to inform, document, and optimize Defense 
Intelligence Enterprise support and production.  Programs shall consider integrating digitalized 
threat M&S products into program/project development.  Programs and AIAs will collaborate 
with organic M&S agencies and service intelligence centers, other IC agencies, and MAJCOM, 
FLDCOM, DRU, FOA to develop the threat M&S portion of the intelligence integration 
strategy. 
A2.14.2.  M&S Standards. Threat system M&S products are considered intelligence products 
and must adhere to ICD, most notably the standards for analysis, sourcing, and utility (ICDs 
203, 206, and 208).  Traceability and maintainability are key aspects of adherence to IC 
standards:  programs must be able to reliably trace the characteristics of threat M&S back to 
the source of its underlying intelligence data, and threat M&S must be maintained over time 
as threat data and technology evolve.  Program/project AIAs shall maintain awareness of 
available threat M&S capabilities and help lead their integration into the program.  The 
integration of threat M&S is most effective when the programs M&S environment is designed 
28 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
with the IC’s standardized threat M&S product types and technical architecture standards in 
mind. 
A2.14.3.  Threat System Databases.  Threat system databases are considered intelligence 
products and must adhere to ICD 203 Analytic Standards.  Threat system databases are 
maintained by the IC and are also a valuable source of digitalized threat information.  Like 
threat M&S products, program integration of threat system databases is most effective when 
the program is designed with the IC’s standardized threat system databases in mind. 
A2.15.  Acquisition Intelligence Coordination with Counterintelligence, Supply Chain Risk 
Management (SCRM), and Cybersecurity.  In addition to analysis of foreign threat systems, 
program threat integration will include analysis of foreign intelligence threats, cyberspace threats, 
and supply chain threat assessments to include potential vendors with foreign ownership, control, 
or influence, as part of SCRM.  IAW DAFI 63-101/20-101, and as outlined in DoDI 
5000.83_DAFI63-113 Technology and Program Protection to Maintain Technological Advantage 
and DoDD 3000.16 Vendor Threat Mitigation, programs must manage system security and 
cybersecurity technical risks from foreign intelligence collection; hardware, software, cyber, and 
cyberspace vulnerabilities; supply chain exploitation; foreign influence, foreign intrusion to 
include both maligned intent and inadvertent introduction of materiel into supply chains and 
reverse engineering, to include the use of anti-tamper techniques.  Intelligence will inform program 
risks in these areas and factor into the program’s protection strategy and associated artifacts to 
include the Program Protection Plan, Science and Technology Protection Plan and Security 
Classification Guide. 
A2.15.1.  Foreign intelligence threat analysis will be done in collaboration with AFOSI IAW 
DoDI O-5240.24 Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and 
Acquisition.  Although AFOSI is the lead for counterintelligence support to programs/projects, 
program AIAs, IAW command guidance, must proactively engage AFOSI to help integrate 
foreign intelligence threat analysis and counterintelligence into the Program Protection Plan, 
Science and Technology Protection Plan. 
A2.15.1.1.  IAW DoDD 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy and DAFI 16-
701_DAFGM2023-01, Management, Administration and Oversight of Special Access 
Programs identifies AFOSI Office of Special Projects (AFOSI/PJ) the office responsible 
for services to include program security, counterintelligence, counterespionage, major 
criminal investigations, technical security, and countermeasure services, and other 
specialized AFOSI activities for SAPs. AFOSI/PJ is also responsible to develop a CI 
support plan for each Special Access Program. 
A2.15.1.2.  In addition to foreign intelligence threats, programs/projects AIAs will work 
with their local SCRM networks and AFOSI to integrate analysis of supply chain threats, 
to include vendors with foreign ownership, control, or influence as part of program/project 
SCRM.  Intelligence related to supply chain threats both maligned and inadvertent is not 
always common to traditional intelligence production; therefore, AIAs must leverage a 
wider range of analytical tools and sources.  This starts with MAJCOM, FLDCOM, DRU, 
FOA and AFMC or SSC (materiel-focused commands) offices responsible for SCRM and 
includes leveraging publicly available information, special access programs, and possibly 
collaborating, through their command, with organizations like the Department of Defense 
Cyber Crime Center (DC3), Defense Technology Security Administration (DTSA), the Air 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
29 
Force Office of Commercial and Economic Analysis (OCEA), Vendor Threat Mitigation, 
and the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) (DOC SCRM Working Group). 
A2.15.2.  Cyberspace provides distinctive threat vectors that programs must consider in the 
threat intelligence section of their acquisition strategy.  AIAs should understand the major 
cyberspace vulnerabilities of their programs/projects and work to integrate relevant and 
tailored threat assessments.  Although not required, AIAs may find it useful to document cyber 
threat assessments in an Adversary Cyber Threat Assessment (ACTA) report IAW MAJCOM, 
FLDCOM, DRU, FOA or AFMC or SSC guidance. 
A2.16.  Intelligence Production Requirements & Collection Requirements.  If the intelligence 
required for a program is not contained in published intelligence or captured as part of the day-to-
day dialogue between programs and IC analysts, programs, led by their AIAs, may be required to 
submit production requirements and collection requirements in accordance with parent command 
guidance and processes.  AIAs will document production requirements and collection 
requirements in program documentation and periodically update program personnel on their status. 
A2.17.  Intelligence Oversight. 
A2.17.1.  U.S. Persons Information.  U.S. Persons Information may only be collected in 
accordance with DoDM 5240.01, Procedures Governing the Conduct of DoD Intelligence 
Activities and local command policies. 
A2.17.2.  Proper Use Memorandum.  Materiel Enterprise personnel may find themselves 
supporting programs developing future imagery intelligence capabilities.  When these 
programs operate over domestic areas (defined as the land areas of the 50 United States, the 
District of Columbia, and the territories and possessions of the United States, to a 12 nautical 
mile seaward limit of these land areas), a Proper Use Memorandum may be required, per 
intelligence oversight guidance found in AFI 14-404, Intelligence Oversight. 
 
30 
DAFI14-411  19 FEBRUARY 2025 
Attachment 3 
ACQUISITION INTELLIGENCE ROLES 
A3.1.  Acquisition Intelligence Analysts (AIAs).  AIAs are DAF professionals whose primary 
duty is to integrate intelligence into the capability development, test, R&D, and acquisition life 
cycle processes.  Intelligence integration activities include, among others:  threat support, to ensure 
capability development and acquisition functions are fully threat informed (see paragraph 
A2.14.3.1. Analytic Standards and Integrity); intelligence supportability analysis, to identify 
intelligence necessary to successfully acquire and employ DAF capabilities; ISR interoperability 
reviews, to ensure materiel systems can integrate with the ISR ecosystem; and intelligence 
production requirements development, to levy the requirements for specific types of intelligence 
to support materiel functions, system or projects.  DAF professionals must complete the 
Acquisition Intelligence Analyst Certification Program (AIACP) within 18 months of being 
assigned to an AIA-coded billet.  AIAs assigned to AIA-coded billets must also adhere to the 
AIACP Guidebook (https://daf.badgr.com/public/badges/WlZ5Pq_ATT-lhKb6QSJpXw). 
A3.1.1.  Acquisition intelligence is a multidisciplinary function, and the AIA workforce should 
include: intelligence personnel, who analyze the threat, conduct ISR interoperability reviews 
and intelligence supportability analysis; engineers, who provide additional insight into the 
technical aspects of threat systems; M&S experts, who assist with the integration of digital 
threat M&S; and data scientists, who analyze and interpret complex digital data to enable threat 
informed acquisition decision-making.  AIAs will also leverage, and receive support from, 
other acquisition functions like financial analysts who can estimate the cost of intelligence-
driven changes to the program and SCRM analyst. 
A3.1.2.  Directors of Intelligence (DOIs).  In coordination with the command A2/S2, AFMC 
or SSC may appoint an intelligence professional as the DOI for a PEO.  In this role, DOIs serve 
as the senior AIA for the PEO and lead the execution of acquisition intelligence for the PEO 
and subordinate programs and give guidance and direction to program AIAs.  Commands may 
also choose to designate an intelligence professional to serve as the Senior Intelligence Officer 
to perform non-AIA intelligence and security related duties for the parent command and the 
local installation.  Commands may also choose to combine DOI and Senior Intelligence Officer 
functions into a single position. 
A3.1.3.  Program/Project AIA.  If designated by AFMC or SSC, program/project AIAs will 
report to a senior program/project leader or the senior program/project AIA and execute 
acquisition intelligence functions for the program/project.  Commands may also choose to 
designate an AIA as the Senior Intelligence Officer to perform non-AIA intelligence and 
security related duties for the parent command and local installation (e.g., force protection, 
classified facility management, personnel security). 
A3.1.4.  For materiel program offices, per DAFI 63-101/20-101, AIAs take program direction 
from the program/project manager, and the intelligence function shall be integrated into the 
program like the integration of logistics, engineering, contracting, and financial management. 
 
