BY ORDER OF THE  
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
MANUAL 14-401 
26 MAY 2021 
Incorporating Change 1, 2 October 2024 
Intelligence 
INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS AND 
TARGETING TRADECRAFT / DATA 
STANDARDS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A2/6A 
Certified by: AF/A2/6A  
(Ms. Jeanette Rivera-Breznai)
Supersedes: 
AFMAN 14-401, 8 August 2019 
Pages: 21 
 
 
This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 14-4, Management of the Air Force 
Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects Operations Enterprise and is 
consistent with Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) 121, Managing the Intelligence 
Community Information Environment, ICD 191, Duty to Warn, ICD 203, Analytic Standards, ICD 
204, National Intelligence Priorities Framework, ICD 205, Analytic Outreach, ICD 206, Sourcing 
Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination or 
Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence Community, ICD 503, Intelligence Community 
Information Technology Systems Security Risk Management.  This publication applies to all 
civilian employees and uniformed members of Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air 
National Guard, the United States Space Force (USSF) and those who are contractually obligated 
to comply with Department of the Air Force (DAF) publications.  Where this publication indicates 
Air Force requirements, the requirements will apply to the Space Force Intelligence element until 
the Secretary of the Air Force publishes policy and guidance applicable to the newly established 
Space Force Intelligence element.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed 
in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary 
responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; 
route Air Force Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  
2 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the OPR 
of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.  The authorities to waive 
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) 
number following the compliance statement.  See Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) 
33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with 
the tier numbers.  Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate 
tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the requestor’s commander for non-tiered 
compliance items.  The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, 
commodity, or service does not imply endorsement by the DAF.  Compliance with Attachments 1 
and 2 in this publication are mandatory. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This interim change (IC) outlines the guidance regarding the FY23 National Defense 
Authorization Act (NDAA), Section 6312, which mandates all Intelligence Analysts be trained 
annually on the standards set forth in the Intelligence Community Directive 203 (ICD 203), 
Analytic Standards. Analysis is the foundational core competency of ISR Airmen and Guardians, 
underpinning all other DAF ISR core competencies directly driving decision making across the 
spectrum of conflict. Incorporating ICD 203 in DAFMAN14-401 codifies DAF compliance with 
the referenced NDAA directive. 
 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Purpose.  This manual establishes the responsibilities of Department of the Air Force 
(DAF) organizations. It is an Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) technical 
and career field-specific publication that defines organizational responsibilities for intelligence 
analysis, targeting intelligence, and data standards in support of global integrated ISR and other 
service core functions, while ensuring consistency with Intelligence Community, Department 
of Defense (DoD), and DAF doctrine, policy, and guidance. 
1.2.  General. 
1.2.1.  Intelligence analysis is a core functional competency of ISR professionals. 
Intelligence analysis is fundamental to all associated DAF activities, from planning and 
mission execution to national mission integration and force modernization. The Analysis 
Capability Working Group, Space Analysis and Tradecraft Working Group, and Analysis 
Review Board are key forums that facilitate analysis unity of effort. Note: Refer to the ICD 
203, Analytic Standards for analysis descriptions, processes, and best practices. 
1.2.2.  Intelligence supportability analysis is a sub-set of intelligence analysis.  A key 
attribute is employing standard processes to identify USAF customer capability and needs, 
and then assessing Intelligence Community and USAF intelligence readiness to support.  
To some degree, this activity occurs at unit-level intelligence for operational wings, but 
intelligence supportability analysis has joint community standards that intelligence support 
to acquisition adhere to for training and certification.  Impactful intelligence supportability 
analysis is a key enabler for DAF capability development and requirements development 
processes. 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
3 
1.2.3.  Targeting intelligence, as highlighted by Joint Publication (JP) 2-0, Joint 
Intelligence, is one of eight categories of intelligence products.  It is a unique type of 
intelligence analysis and a core functional competency of ISR professionals.  The DAF 
aligns with the joint community’s perspective that the targeting process is a systematic, 
comprehensive, and continuous analytical approach.  It is combined with clear 
understanding of operational requirements, capabilities, and limitations to identify and 
exploit critical adversary vulnerabilities within target systems.  The Targeting Capability 
Working Group is a key forum that facilitates unity of effort across the DAF targeting 
intelligence enterprise. 
1.2.4.  Data is the fundamental unit of intelligence analysis and targeting.  The overall 
USAF ISR enterprise operates in a data-centric environment that makes data discoverable, 
accessible, interoperable, and secure to meet Intelligence Community requirements.  The 
USAF manages intelligence data as an enterprise asset.  The USAF Intelligence Element 
will make the data available to authorized USAF, DoD, national mission partners, and 
partner nations in accordance with United States law, DoD, and Intelligence Community 
guidance.  The USAF ISR Council provides governance for USAF intelligence data use. 
2.  Roles and Responsibilities.  The Secretary of the Air Force, with consultation with the 
Director of National Intelligence (DNI), has designated the Deputy Chief of Staff, ISR and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) as the Air Force Head of the Intelligence Community Element 
(HICE) and the Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2) as the Space Force 
HICE. A2/6 will continue coordination with SF/S2, USAF-designated programs, forums, and 
representatives will include USSF requirements, as applicable. 
2.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6).  AF/A2/6 will: 
2.1.1.  Designate a representative to serve as the Senior ISR Analyst; Analytic Ombudsman 
in accordance with ICD 203 and Intelligence Community, Analytic Ombuds Activity – 
Guide & Recommendations; Analytic Outreach Coordinator in accordance with ICD 205; 
and Analytic Production Steward IAW ICD 501 or USAF analytic portfolio lead.  (T-0). 
2.1.2.  Establish and oversee USAF targeting intelligence guidance that applies to ISR 
activities, to include Target Coordinate Mensuration training and certification programs 
and the Collateral Damage Estimation training program per Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Instruction (CJCSI) 3160.01C, No Strike and the Collateral Damage Estimation 
Methodology, and CJCSI 3505.01D, Target Coordinate Mensuration Certification and 
Program Accreditation.  (T-0). 
2.1.3.  Designate a USAF Collateral Damage Estimation Program Manager to the Joint 
Staff Deputy Directorate for Warfighter Support, Targeting Division. 
2.1.4.  Designate USAF programs of record for target coordinate mensuration, target 
material production, and target mensuration only programs. 
2.1.5.  Appoint an Air Force ISR Chief Data Officer to establish ISR-specific guidance, 
standards, data-centric architecture, and procedures to manage data during its life cycle to 
meet Intelligence Community, DoD, and DAF requirements outlined in  ICD 121, ICD 
501, ICD 503, DoD Instruction (DoDI) 8310.01, Information Technology Standards in the 
DoD, DoDI 8320.02, Sharing Data, Information, and Information Technology (IT) 
4 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
Services in the Department of Defense, DoDI 8320.07, Implementing the Sharing of Data, 
Information, and Information Technology (IT) Services in the Department of Defense, and 
DoD Directive (DoDD) 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) in DoD 
Acquisition.  (T-0). 
2.1.6.  Coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) and 
DAF acquisition leadership to ensure intelligence support is provided during the 
development of requirements across the full acquisition life cycle. 
2.1.7.  Coordinate intelligence analysis, targeting, and data standards guidance with 
appropriate SF/S2 staff elements. 
2.1.8.  As the Air Force HICE, and in consultation with the Space Force HICE, submit to 
the congressional intelligence committees a certification asserting that all Intelligence 
analysts in the USAF and USSF have completed the annual training in accordance with 
ICD 203, Analytic Standards. 
2.1.9.  As the HICE, submit to the congressional intelligence committees a certification 
asserting that all Intelligence analysts in the USAF and USSF have completed the training. 
2.2.  Director, 
Intelligence 
Analysis, 
Partnerships, 
and 
Engagements 
(AF/A2/6A).  AF/A2/6A will: 
2.2.1.  Oversee analysis policy, guidance, strategic planning, advocacy, evaluation, 
competencies, and tradecraft standards for the USAF ISR enterprise. 
2.2.2.  Establish duty-to-warn procedures in accordance with ICD 191.  (T-0).  Designate 
separate senior officers responsible for reviewing threat information and making waiver 
determinations.  (T-0).  Coordinate processes with the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations.  (T-0). 
2.2.3.  Serve as USAF ISR lead representative to the Intelligence Community, DoD, allies, 
and industry for analysis policy, requirements, capabilities, standards, analytic outreach, 
and disputes.  EXCEPTION:  The Commander, National Air and Space Intelligence 
Center (NASIC/CC) serves as USAF lead representative for Defense Intelligence Analysis 
Program-related analytic disputes. 
2.2.4.  Serve as USAF intelligence analysis functional area manager for policy formulation, 
standards, readiness, and requirements. 
2.2.5.  In coordination with USSF/S2, advocate for analysis resources in DAF, DoD, and 
Intelligence Community planning and programming forums. 
2.2.6.  Provide oversight and annual development of a USAF ISR Program of Analysis in 
accordance with DoDI 3115.17, Management and Oversight of DoD All-Source Analysis, 
and Intelligence Community direction.  (T-0). 
2.2.7.  Establish and oversee a USAF Intelligence Analysis Assessment Program to 
evaluate compliance with Intelligence Community and DAF analysis tradecraft standards 
and with Intelligence Community sourcing requirements for specific, pre-identified 
covered products. 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
5 
2.2.7.1.  Include requirements, timelines, and minimum criteria to evaluate Intelligence 
Community and DAF analysis tradecraft standards, including compliance with ICD 
203. (T-0). 
2.2.7.2.  Coordinate with SF/S2 staff, major command directors of intelligence, field 
command directors of intelligence, and NASIC/CC to annually identify the subset of 
DAF products to be included in the Office of the DNI covered product list in 
accordance with ICD 206.  (T-0).  Annually submit a nomination list of covered 
products in accordance with ICD 206.  (T-0). 
2.2.7.3.  Annually identify shortfalls in Intelligence Community support for the 
USAF’s ability to meet analytic priorities, USAF ISR Program of Analysis focus areas, 
and key intelligence questions. 
2.2.7.4.  Compile ISR analytic assessments and develop written reports that summarize 
results, highlight trends, identify shortfalls, and make recommendations. 
2.2.7.5.  Provide results of assessments, standards compliance, and Intelligence 
Community shortfalls to the Office of the DNI, Office of the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Intelligence, and the Defense Intelligence Agency. 
2.2.8.  Administer the USAF Quality of Analysis Program for analytic professional 
development. 
2.2.9.  Lead the Analysis Review Board for the USAF, with Air Combat Command 
Director of Intelligence (ACC/A2) and Space Operations Command Director of ISR 
(SpOC/S2) as advisors (given their service analysis roles).  Provide oversight, assessment, 
and improved coordination of intelligence analysis and production within the USAF ISR 
enterprise. 
2.2.10.  Advocate for intelligence-specific analysis and production systems; tools; and 
technologies in coordination with AF/A2/6O, the Air Force ISR Chief Data Officer, 
ACC/A2, SpOC/S2, and senior intelligence officers of Air Force Material Command and 
Space Systems Command.  Coordinate with the Air Force ISR Chief Data Officer to 
synchronize intelligence analysis technology initiatives with Intelligence Community and 
DoD efforts. 
2.2.11.  Adjudicate analysis and production disputes, and represent the USAF in national 
forums with regard to disputes between customers and USAF intelligence producers.  
Exception:  SF/S2 will adjudicate disputes pertaining to USSF intelligence producers. 
2.2.12.  Serve as Analysis Capability Advocate to provide Intelligence Community and 
USAF-level information, policy, and guidance to the Analysis Capability Working Group 
that affect DAF intelligence analysis capabilities. 
2.2.13.  Coordinate intelligence analysis guidance with appropriate SF/S2 staff elements. 
2.2.14.  Oversee the establishment of an annual training program reinforcing ICD 203, 
Analytic Standards. 
 
 
6 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
2.3.  Director, 
Intelligence, 
Surveillance, 
and 
Reconnaissance 
Operations 
(AF/A2/6O).  AF/A2/6O will: 
2.3.1.  Oversee targeting intelligence policy, guidance, strategic planning, advocacy, and 
competencies for the USAF ISR enterprise. 
2.3.2.  Serve as USAF targeting intelligence functional area manager for policy 
formulation, standards, readiness, and requirements. 
2.3.2.1.  Serve as the overall and department-level functional manager for USAF-wide 
targeting intelligence, and for target coordinate mensuration training and certification, 
collateral damage estimation training, and implementation of CJSIs 3160.01C and 
3505.01D. 
2.3.2.2.  Serve as the waiver authority for individuals or units that wish to train with or 
utilize a target coordinate mensuration program other than the AF/A2/6-designated 
program(s) of record.  EXCEPTION:  SpOC/S2 will serve as waiver authority for 
Space Force Intelligence element individuals and units. 
2.3.2.3.  Serve as the single focal point regarding USAF position to the Joint Staff, 
DoD, and Intelligence Community on targeting intelligence-related policy and 
guidance issues. 
2.3.3.  Oversee intelligence support to acquisition policy, guidance, strategic planning, 
advocacy, and competencies for the USAF ISR enterprise. 
2.3.4.  Serve as USAF intelligence support to acquisition functional area manager for 
policy formulation, standards, readiness, and requirements. 
2.3.5.  Serve as the USAF functional manager for intelligence support to acquisition and 
implementation of CJCSI 5123.01H, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council 
(JROC) and Implementation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 
DoDI 5000.86, Acquisition Intelligence, and Title 10 United States Code Section 2431a, 
Acquisition Strategy. 
2.3.6.  Plan and program for both analysis and targeting intelligence capabilities; review 
all joint and AF requirements, planning, and acquisition documents for intelligence 
interests; report critical intelligence parameter breaches to all applicable USAF Intelligence 
elements; provide substantive intelligence support and oversee acquisition intelligence 
support for all special access programs; and ensure the provision of adequate resources per 
Public Law 108-458, Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, Section 
1016(i).  (T-0). 
2.3.7.  Integrate applicable collections policy, guidance, strategic planning, and advocacy 
with analysis, targeting, and data standards initiatives to achieve a mutually supporting 
USAF intelligence enterprise. 
2.3.8.  Coordinate intelligence targeting and acquisition guidance with appropriate SF/S2 
staff elements to ensure integrated USAF/USSF approach and synergy. 
 
 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
7 
2.4.  Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Chief Data Officer.  The 
Air Force ISR Chief Data Officer is the senior AF/A2/6 leader responsible for establishing 
ISR-specific policy and overseeing execution of all Air Force ISR-specific data management 
activities, including data standards, tagging, stewardship, cataloging, and modeling according 
to ICD 121, ICD 501, and Public Law 108-458.  The Air Force ISR Chief Data Officer will: 
2.4.1.  Coordinate with the Air Force Chief ISR Information Officer to identify 
technologies and solutions for automated discovery, access, and use of all available data 
by the ISR enterprise. 
2.4.2.  Serve as the principal USAF member on Intelligence Community and DoD data 
standards forums, including the Intelligence Community Chief Data Officer Council.  
SF/S2 serves as USSF member. 
2.4.3.  Establish and chair an Air Force ISR data governance forum to coordinate with 
major command senior intelligence officers in guiding ISR data use and collaboration on 
data standards, models, and information enterprise unity of effort across the Air Force ISR 
enterprise. 
2.4.4.  Advocate for ISR data management and implementation of data standards and 
resourcing through the Air Force corporate process. 
2.4.5.  Coordinate with the Air Force Chief Data Officer on any ISR issues that impact or 
affect larger Air Force-wide data management activities, standards, tagging, cataloging, 
and modeling in accordance with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-70, Enterprise 
Data Management. 
2.5.  Commander, Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI/CC).  AFOSI/CC 
will: 
2.5.1.  Serve as the OPR for conducting analysis of counterintelligence and international 
terrorism threats to USAF equities. (T-1). 
2.5.2.  Establish duty-to-warn procedures in accordance with ICD 191.  (T-0).  Collaborate 
with USAF ISR and USSF ISR elements, United States, and foreign law enforcement 
agencies to communicate threat data.  (T-0). 
2.6.  Commander, National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC/CC).  As the 
Commander of the USAF service intelligence center and USAF and DoD center of analytical 
excellence for foreign threats to United States air and space operations, NASIC/CC will: 
2.6.1.  Collaborate across the DAF, DoD, and Intelligence Community, and with allies to 
provide fusion and all-source analysis to meet operational, policy, requirements 
community, and acquisition needs.  (T-0). 
2.6.2.  Identify resource requirements for meeting customer analysis requirements in 
accordance with CJCSI 5123.01H, Defense Intelligence Agency guidance, and Public Law 
108-458.  (T-0). 
2.6.3.  Establish duty-to-warn procedures per ICD 191 and DAF direction.  (T-0).  
Designate separate senior officers responsible for reviewing threat information and making 
waiver determinations.  (T-0).  Coordinate procedures with the Air Force Office of Special 
8 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
Investigations in their role as DAF analytic center for counterintelligence and international 
terrorist threats.  (T-1). 
2.6.4.  Establish procedures and implement USAF Intelligence Analysis Assessment 
Program to evaluate and report compliance with ICD 203 tradecraft standards and two 
additional USAF Intelligence Element standards of timeliness and customer engagement; 
pre-identified covered products per ICD 206; and shortfalls in Intelligence Community and 
USAF-level support for the center’s ability to meet analytic requirements, USAF Program 
of Analysis focus areas, and key intelligence questions.  (T-1). 
2.6.5.  Designate at least one ombudsman responsible for responding to concerns raised by 
center analysts about adherence to USAF analytic tenets, standards, and production 
guidelines per ICD 203 and Intelligence Community Analytic Ombuds Activity – Guide & 
Recommendations.  (T-0). 
2.6.6.  Establish and resource an ISR senior data officer to implement and manage NASIC-
specific data standards and oversee proper life cycle management, storage, cataloging, and 
tagging of all data of intelligence value per ICDs 121, 501, and 503, DoDIs 8310.01, 
8320.02, and 8320.07, and DoDD 5250.01.  (T-0).  As required, identify subordinate units 
needing ISR data portfolio leads and coordinate with other senior data officers and the Air 
Force ISR Chief Data Officer to effectively manage ISR-specific data.  (T-1). 
2.6.7.  Align analysis priorities with Intelligence Community, DoD, and DAF guidance, 
including ICD 204, DNI unifying intelligence strategies, Defense Intelligence Agency 
strategies, Defense Intelligence All-source Analysis Enterprise Management Guide, USAF 
ISR Programs of Analysis, and multi-program prioritized production requirements.  (T-0). 
2.6.8.  Annually produce and provide to AF/A2/6A a Program of Analysis that integrates 
USAF ISR Program of Analysis focus areas, outlines center’s analytic priorities, and 
identifies gaps in meeting customer requirements.  (T-1). 
2.6.9.  Implement and oversee center-wide intelligence requirements, priorities, and 
production management processes; maintain timely customer engagement according to the 
needs of the customer on production requirements and requests for information.  (T-1). 
2.6.10.  Serve as the USAF Validation Office for Defense Intelligence Analysis Program 
production requirements and formally submit requirements into DAF, DoD, and 
Intelligence Community requirements processes for evaluation by applicable producers at 
the earliest stage.  (T-1). 
2.6.11.  Perform analytic outreach responsibilities in accordance with ICD 205.  (T-0). 
2.6.12.  Coordinate intelligence requirements and activities associated with foreign threats 
to space operations with appropriate Space Force Intelligence elements. 
2.7.  Major Command/Field Command/Numbered Air Force Directors of Intelligence 
(A2/S2) and Operations (A3/S3).  A2/S2 and A3/S3 will execute the Tactics Analysis and 
Reporting Program for their areas of responsibility and will appoint separate co-chairs for each 
Tactics Analysis Team, as appropriate. 
 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
9 
2.8.  Tactics Analysis Team Co-Chairs.  Tactics Analysis Team Co-Chairs are responsible 
for the organization, conduct, and execution of Tactics Analysis Teams.  Co-chairs will: 
2.8.1.  Lead and manage all Tactics Analysis Team operations, teams, and working groups 
to satisfy operational requirements.  (T-2). 
2.8.2.  Oversee development of and discoverability of Tactics Analysis Team and Tactics 
and Adversary Studies Element products within required timelines.  (T-2). 
2.8.3.  Establish collection, requirements, analysis, and Tactics and Adversary Studies 
Element priorities in support of each Tactics Analysis Team and operational requirements.  
(T-3). 
2.8.4.  Advocate for Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program funding through the DAF 
corporate process and present programmatic issues to the Tactics Coordinating Committee.  
(T-3). 
2.9.  Major and Field Command Directors of Intelligence (A2 and S2).  A2 and S2 will: 
2.9.1.  Oversee the analysis and production activities of command elements, to include 
Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program and Tactics and Adversary Studies Element, in 
response to validated mission requirements. 
2.9.2.  Submit an endorsed memorandum via e-mail to AF/A2/6O requesting approval to 
use a target coordinate mensuration program other than the AF/A2/6 and/or SpOC/S2 
program of record. 
2.9.3.  Establish duty-to-warn procedures according to ICD 191 and DAF direction.  (T-0).  
Designate separate senior officers responsible for reviewing threat information and making 
waiver determinations.  (T-0).  Coordinate processes with the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations in their role as DAF analytic center for counterintelligence and international 
terrorist threats. 
2.9.4.  Establish procedures and implement USAF Intelligence Analysis Assessment 
Program to evaluate and report compliance with ICD 203 tradecraft standards and two 
additional USAF standards of timeliness and customer engagement; pre-identified covered 
products per ICD 206; and shortfalls in Intelligence Community and DAF-level support 
for the command’s ability to meet analytic requirements, USAF ISR and USSF ISR 
Program of Analysis focus areas (as applicable), and key intelligence questions. 
2.9.5.  Designate at least one ombudsman responsible for responding to concerns raised by 
command analysts about adherence to USAF analytic tenets, standards, and production 
guidelines per ICD 203 and Intelligence Community Analytic Ombuds Activity – Guide & 
Recommendations.  (T-0). 
2.9.6.  Establish and resource an ISR senior data officer to implement and manage ISR-
specific command data standards and oversee proper life cycle management, storage, 
cataloging, and tagging of all data of intelligence value per ICDs 121, 501, and 503 and 
DoDIs 8310.01, 8320.02, and 8320.07.  (T-0).  As required, identify subordinate units 
needing ISR-specific data portfolio leads and coordinate with other senior data officers and 
their respective service ISR Chief Data Officer to effectively manage ISR-specific data. 
10 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
2.9.7.  Implement and oversee command-wide intelligence requirements, priorities, and 
production management processes and a tracking system in support of a distributed, 
layered, and mutually supporting analysis and production enterprise. 
2.9.8.  For ISR support to acquisition, ensure threat support analysis and intelligence 
supportability processes, priorities, and requirements are submitted at the earliest possible 
date to DAF, DoD, and Intelligence Community elements to facilitate optimum weapon 
system interoperability, supportability, and sufficiency. 
2.9.9.  Identify resource gaps for meeting end-user analysis requirements or as identified 
in the USAF ISR Program of Analysis.  Formulate ISR analysis requirements in accordance 
with USAF and USSF corporate (as applicable) and Joint Capabilities Integration and 
Development System processes. 
2.9.10.  Collaborate with and identify counterintelligence topics, vulnerabilities, 
opportunities, and acquisition requirements to the Air Force Office of Special 
Investigations per DoDI O-5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting 
Research, Development, and Acquisition (RDA).  (T-0). 
2.9.11.  Perform analytic outreach responsibilities in accordance with ICD 205.  (T-0). 
2.9.12.  Implement and oversee an annual training program on the standards set forth in 
ICD 203, Analytic Standards, ensuring all personnel who perform intelligence analysis 
complete the annual training. 
2.10.  Commander, Air Combat Command (COMACC).  As commander of the lead major 
command for analysis and targeting, COMACC will guide the integration, synchronization, 
and advocacy of analysis and targeting requirements in accordance with AFI 38-101, 
Manpower and Organization, and AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and 
Responsibilities for Weapon Systems. 
2.11.  Air Combat Command Director for Intelligence (ACC/A2).  ACC/A2 will: 
2.11.1.  On behalf of COMACC, serve as the OPR for lead major command analysis and 
targeting intelligence responsibilities. 
2.11.2.  Chair the Analysis Capability Working Group and Targeting Capability Working 
Group.  These cross-major command and field command entities are responsible for 
coordinating, assessing, and synchronizaing USAF ISR enterprise analysis and targeting 
intelligence policies, tradecraft, education, training, tools, and solutions.  Note:  SpOC/S2 
will serve as Space Advisor to Analysis and Targeting Capability Working Groups. 
2.11.3.  Serve as the program manager for the Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program, 
Tactics and Adversary Studies Elements, threat to air operations, red threat matrix, and Air 
Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1, Threat Guide. 
2.11.4.  Establish Tactics and Adversary Studies Element teams to optimize multi-source 
adversary tactics analytic support for major and field command, numbered air force and 
associated air, space, and cyberspace component elements through the analysis and 
integration of data not readily available outside cryptologic channels. 
2.11.5.  Serve as the program manager for the Collateral Damage Estimation Qualification 
program and as the functional manager for overall USAF target program implementation, 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
11 
to include maintaining program accreditations.  Functional manager oversight 
responsibilities cover the USAF Target Coordinate Mensuration, Target Material 
Production, and Target Mensuration training and certification programs.  Target coordinate 
mensuration program functional manager(s), collateral damage estimation qualification 
program manager, and accreditation maintenance responsibilities may be delegated to a 
lower level, as required. 
2.11.6.  Ensure alignment of intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance wing analysis 
and targeting priorities with the USAF ISR Program of Analysis.  Establish processes to 
conduct wing production gap assessments and ability to meet customer requirements; 
annually report findings to AF/A2/6A for incorporation into the USAF ISR Program of 
Analysis. 
2.11.7.  Coordinate closely with AF/A2/6A and AF/A2/6O to ensure USAF guidance is 
sufficient to enable analysis and targeting intelligence operations, and to promote 
associated doctrine, concepts, best practices, materials, and training across the USAF. 
2.11.8.  Advocate for analysis and targeting intelligence funding, advise on program 
direction, and foster collaboration among DAF organizations. 
2.11.9.  Ensure Tactics Analysis and Reporting Program products are available and 
discoverable on the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System and the Secret 
Internet Protocol Router Network. 
2.12.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC/CC) and Commander, Space 
and Missile Systems Center (SMC/CC).  AFMC/CC and SMC/CC will guide the integration, 
sychronization, and advocacy of intelligence support to research and development, acquisition, 
test, sustainment, and installation management.  AFMC/CC and SMC/CC will: 
2.12.1.  Deliver new intelligence capabilities through the appropriate program 
management office in accordance with DoDI 5000.75, Business Systems Requirements and 
Acquisition, and AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management.  (T-0). 
2.12.2.  Perform intelligence support to research and development, acquisition, test, 
sustainment, and installation management, which includes identifying and characterizing 
intelligence requirements for minimization of DAF capability risk per DoDI 5000.02, 
Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework, DoDI 5000.86, AFI 63-101/20-101, 
and the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System.  (T-0). 
2.13.  Commander, Air Education and Training Command (AETC/CC).  As the 
commander of the lead major command for force development and training, AETC/CC directs 
life cycle management of formal training courses for analysis and targeting intelligence per 
AFI 36-2670, Total Force Development, and to ensure DoD and Intelligence Community 
standards and training requirements are integrated for joint mission success. 
 
 
12 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
3.  GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES. 
3.1.  United States Air Force Intelligence Analysis Tradecraft Standards. 
3.1.1.  All USAF ISR, analysis, and production will adhere to ID 203 tradecraft standards 
of (1) Appropriate Sourcing, (2) Level of Uncertainty, (3) Assumptions vs Judgments, (4) 
Analysis of Alternatives, (5) Customer Relevance, (6) Logical Argumentation, (7) 
Consistency in Judgment, (8) Accuracy, and (9) Visual Information.  (T-0).  USAF analysis 
and production will also adhere to two additional tradecraft standards of (1) Timeliness, 
and (2) Customer Engagement, which align with global integrated ISR guidance while 
emphasizing analytic priority attributes within the DAF.  (T-1).  Note:  Reference ICD 203 
for descriptions of the first nine standards; Attachment 1, Terms for a description of the 
two additional USAF standards; and the USAF Intelligence Analysis Handbook for a 
sample assessment methodology. 
3.1.2.  Analytic tradecraft standards will be incorporated in USAF initial and mission 
qualification training requirements and used to conduct analysis operations and to report 
on readiness.  (T-0). 
3.1.3.  USAF intelligence analysis entities will periodically review their produced 
intelligence products for compliance with USAF intelligence analysis tradecraft standards.  
(T-0). 
3.2.  Challenges to Analytic Tenets and Standards.  USAF ISR professionals will be trained 
on and apply USAF analysis tenets (Note:  Reference Attachment 2 for a description), and 
standards  raising concerns when others attempt, or appear to attempt, to influence analysis 
outcomes.  (T-0).  As depicted in Figure 1., ISR professionals (P) will raise real or perceived 
problems of analytic tradecraft or politicization, biased reporting, or lack of objectivity in 
intelligence analysis through their chain of command (C).  (T-0).  If concerns remain after 
internal procedures have been exhausted, per ICD 203 and Intelligence Community Analytic 
Ombuds Activity – Guide & Recommendations, ISR professionals will directly report concerns 
to the first analytic ombudsman in their chain, which may be their major or field command 
ombudsman or the National Air and Space Intelligence Center Ombudsman (M).  (T-0).  If 
analytic integrity concerns still remain, ISR professionals will directly report concerns to the 
USAF Analytic Ombudsman, and subsequently the Office of the DNI Analytic Ombudsman.  
(T-0). 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
13 
Figure 1.  Ombudsman Reporting Matrix. 
 
 
3.3.  Requirements and Production Management. 
3.3.1.  USAF intelligence analysis entities will follow the basic and enterprise request for 
information flow processes identified in the DAF Intelligence Analysis Handbook to ensure 
standardization across the USAF ISR enterprise.  (T-3). 
3.3.2.  USAF analysis organizations will follow Defense Intelligence Analysis Program 
(DIAP)-established timelines and procedures for managing requests for information that 
fall within the DIAP purview.  (T-0). 
3.3.3.  The USAF will use the Defense Intelligence Agency-developed Community On-
Line Intelligence System for End-Users and Managers as the primary tool to research, 
develop, submit and review, validate, and assign DIAP-related requirements to analysis 
centers, as appropriate.  (T-2). 
 
 
14 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
3.3.4.  The USAF will post all identified covered analytic products, as defined by ICD 206, 
to the Library of National Intelligence.  (T-0).  To the extent feasible, the DAF will post 
all other published products to the Library of National Intelligence.  (T-3). 
 
MARY F. O’BRIEN, Lt Gen, USAF 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, 
Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
15 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Public Law 108-458, Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, 17 December 
2004 
Public Law 117-263, FY23 National Defense Authorization Act, Section 6312, Annual Training 
Requirement and Report Regarding Analytic Standards, 20 December 2022 
Title 10 United States Code Section 4211, Acquisition strategy. 
CJCSI 3160.01D, No Strike and the Collateral Damage Estimation Methodology, 21 May 2021 
*CJCSI 3505.01E, Target Coordinate Mensuration Certification and Program Accreditation, 10 
August 2022 
CJCSI 5123.01I, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) and 
Implementation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 30 October 2021 
DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) in DoD Acquisition, 29 
August 2017 
DoDI 3115.17, Management and Oversight of DoD All-Source Analysis, 21 September 2020 
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework, 08 June 2022 
DoDI 5000.75, Business Systems Requirements and Acquisition, 24 January 2020 
DoDI 5000.86, Acquisition Intelligence, 11 September 2020 
DoDI O-5240.24, Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, Development, and 
Acquisition (RDA), 15 July 2020 
DoDI 8310.01, Information Technology Standards in the DoD, 7 April 2023 
DoDI 8320.02, Sharing Data, Information, and Information Technology (IT) Services in the 
Department of Defense, 24 June 2020 
DoDI 8320.07, Implementing the Sharing of Data, Information, and Information Technology (IT) 
Services in the Department of Defense, 5 December 2017 
ICD 121, Managing the Intelligence Community Information Environment, 19 January 2017 
ICD 191, Duty to Warn, 21 July 2015 
ICD 203, Analytic Standards, 21 December 2022 
ICD 204, National Intelligence Priorities Framework, 7 January 2021 
ICD 205, Analytic Outreach, 28 August 2013 
ICD 206, Sourcing Requirements for Disseminated Analytic Products, 22 January 2015 
ICD 501, Discovery and Dissemination or Retrieval of Information within the Intelligence 
Community, 21 January 2009 
16 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
ICD 503, Intelligence Community Information Technology Systems Security Risk Management, 
21 July 2015 
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 25 March 
2021 
AFPD 14-4, Management of the Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations Enterprise, 11 July 2019 
AFPD 90-70, Enterprise Data Management, 13 February 2020 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
DAFI 90-160, Publications and Forms Management, 14 April 2022 
AFI 36-2670, Total Force Development, 25 June 2020 
AFI 38-101, Manpower and Organization, 29 August 2019 
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 16 February 2024 
AFTTP 3-1, Threat Guide, [SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network Caution-url:  
https://intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/547intel/SitePages/TG.aspx] 
USAF Intelligence Analysis Handbook, [Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System 
Caution-url:  https://hafa2.highpoint.dodiis.ic.gov/#/content/home.html; Nonsecure Internet 
Protocol Router Network:  https://intelshare.intelink.gov/sites/a2/analysis/default.aspx] 
Defense Intelligence All-source Analysis Enterprise, Management Guide, March 2019, [Joint 
Worldwide Intelligence Communications System Caution-url:  
https://dia.coe.ic.gov/sites/DIAP/default.aspx] 
Intelligence Community Analytic Ombuds Activity – Guide & Recommendations, January 2019, 
[Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System Caution-url:  
https://intelshare.intelink.ic.gov/sites/odni-
mi/mpac/AIS/Pages/Analytic%20Ombudsman.aspx] 
JP 2-0, Joint Intelligence, 26 May 2022 
HAFMD 2-4, Special Management: Deputy Chief of Staff Space Operations for Intelligence, 24 
April 2023 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
A2—Director of Intelligence 
A3—Director of Operations 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
17 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AETC—Air Education and Training Command 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFMAN—Air Force Manual 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
COMACC—Commander, Air Combat Command 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DIAP—Defense Intelligence Analysis Program 
DNI—Director of National Intelligence 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
ICD—Intelligence Community Directive 
INT—Intelligence 
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
JP—Joint Publication 
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
S2—Director of Intelligence 
S3—Director of Operations 
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center 
SpOC—Space Operations Command 
U.S.—United States 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
Terms 
All-Source Analysis—Intelligence analysis that employs all available sources of data and 
information to enable the creation of new intelligence and knowledge. 
18 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
Analytic Ombudsman—Representative who is responsible for addressing organizational 
concerns regarding bias, politicization, lack of objectivity, or other concerns in the application of 
analysis and production standards. 
Covered Products—A subset of disseminated analytic products or services that is officially 
designated by an Intelligence Community element as falling under the authority of ICD 206. 
Customer Engagement—Additional USAF analysis tradecraft standard.  Analysts should fully 
address customer requirements within time constraints and in a manner most useful, as well as be 
responsive to customer feedback.  While challenging to evaluate, this tradecraft standard is 
foundational to USAF intelligence analysis. 
Data Portfolio Lead—The decision authority at the wing or delta level for tagging, retention, 
release, destruction of data holdings, and access to wing or delta data and information. 
Duty—to-Warn—A requirement to warn United States and non-United States persons of 
impending threats of intentional killing, serious bodily injury, or kidnapping.  Note:  See ICD 191 
for details. 
Fusion Analysis (also called Time-Dominant Fusion)—Analysis in a time-sensitive 
environment in close proximity to the point of collection that entails quickly melding new 
information with baseline knowledge to meet a specific operational need.  Emphasis is on the 
process of managing information and on timeliness over completeness. 
Intelligence Analysis—A cognitive activity–both art and science–applying tools, processes, 
tradecraft, methods, and judgments to data and information to create and deliver new intelligence, 
insights, and knowledge, with the goal of providing a decision advantage to commanders and 
decision makers. 
Intelligence Consumer  (also called Intelligence Customer )—A requestor or user of 
intelligence, including an operational unit, an acquisition organization, a national policy maker, or 
an intelligence organization. 
Intelligence Product—Tangible information in written, visual, digital, and/or verbal form that 
conveys information of intelligence value (e.g., written assessment, threat map, and targeting 
materials). 
Intelligence Production—The development, tailoring, and presentation of intelligence 
knowledge via products and/or services that address customer requirements. 
Intelligence Requirement—A need for intelligence to fill a gap in knowledge or understanding 
of the environment, adversary capabilities, centers of gravity, or intentions. 
Intelligence Service—Assistance provided to another entity during the performance of an ISR 
mission:  (1) the actual action of delivering or conveying intelligence to a user (e.g., presenting a 
briefing, tipping and cuing, collaboration, or threat modeling), or (2) the process of enabling an 
ISR mission (e.g., exercise planning, skill knowledge training, or security clearance 
indoctrination).  Some intelligence services result in additional intelligence products. 
Key Intelligence Question—A strategic, high-level question that states the primary unknown, or 
information need, about an intelligence issue or problem, which subsequently drives intelligence 
analysis and/or production within an organization. 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
19 
Multi-Source Analysis (also called Multi-Intelligence Analysis)—Intelligence analysis that 
makes use of more than one source when access to additional potential sources is limited by 
reasons of timeliness, system access, location, or security levels. 
Senior ISR Data Officer—An organization’s representative who oversees life cycle management, 
storage, cataloging, tagging, and information sharing of ISR-specific data.  Senior ISR Data 
Officers understand ISR enterprise automation and other infrastructure requirements, plans, and 
activities of mission systems. 
Single-Source Analysis (also called Exploitation)—Intelligence analysis that employs a single 
source or expertise in a functional area to characterize events, people, or things.  Such analysis is 
limited to describing, rather than evaluating, the topic of a particular analysis due to restrictions 
inherent in single-source intelligence collection, precluding the ability to provide fully 
contextualized intelligence assessments. 
Targeting Intelligence Enterprise—An integrated system of technologies, standards, data, 
processes, procedures, organizations, and people that are used to develop, plan, execute, assess, 
and support military operations with decision-quality targeting material and intelligence. 
Timeliness—Additional USAF analysis tradecraft standard.  Analysis must be timely to impact 
planning, mission objectives, operations and aid in commanders' decisions.  The aim is to deliver 
knowledge at the earliest time and place to enable effective decisions and action. 
 
20 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
Attachment 2 
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS TENETS 
A2.1.  USAF intelligence analysis tenets derive from and support.  Intelligence Community, 
joint intelligence, and broader ISR principles, while simultaneously emphasizing analysis 
attributes of particular interest and priority within the USAF.  These overarching principles are 
held to be true and in common by USAF ISR professionals, and they cover the most important 
tenets of USAF intelligence analysis. 
A2.2.  ISR professionals are responsible for.  Applying the following six USAF intelligence 
analysis tenets to the extent feasible and reporting related concerns in accordance with Paragraph 
3.2. (T-0). 
A2.2.1.  Objectivity  .  Analysis will be based on fact and be clear and truthful about what is 
known versus what is judged.  (T-1).  It will not be distorted by emotion or personal or 
organizational bias and will be independent of command or political considerations.  (T-1).  
Further, it will clearly delineate underlying intelligence, assumptions, and judgments.  (T-1).  
Analysts should address alternative perspectives and contrary information and avoid being 
unduly constrained by previous judgments. 
A2.2.2.  Integrity  .  While closely linked to objectivity, integrity involves a broader focus on 
all activities, standards, and processes associated with intelligence analysis.  Analysts will 
ensure complete honesty and reliability in their analysis combined with firm adherence to a 
code of professional ethics and tradecraft standards such as accuracy, timeliness, and customer 
responsiveness.  (T-1).  Integrity includes explaining changes in previous analytic judgments, 
as well as addressing significant differences in judgment among various United States analytic 
elements.  As stated in Joint Publication (JP) 2-0, integrity is “the cardinal element in 
intelligence analysis and reporting, and the foundation on which credibility with the 
intelligence consumer is built.” 
A2.2.3.  Synthesis  .  Intelligence analysis requires analysts to use all available sources of 
information to maximize completeness.  (T-1).  Analysts should also identify information gaps 
and, where they exist, they should coordinate with collectors to develop access and collection 
strategies.  Synthesis is founded on well-honed tradecraft skills, including critical thinking, 
alternative analysis, and the ability to take the perspective of the adversary.  Compatible, 
service-oriented information technology architectures and tools are also key to facilitating 
synthesis. 
A2.2.4.  Collaboration  .  Analysts must actively solicit opinions and assessments from other 
analysts and seek to share ideas.  (T-1).  Data, information, and intelligence must be broadly 
accessed and shared.  (T-1).  Collaboration should take place internally within the DAF ISR 
enterprise, across the Intelligence Community, and with allies, academia, and other entities 
outside the Intelligence Community, when feasible.  Effective collaboration facilitates 
maximum synthesis. 
 
 
DAFMAN14-401  26 MAY 2021 
21 
A2.2.5.  Anticipation  .  Analysis is far more than trend assessment; its true value resides in 
warning and forecasting to be relevant to decision-making, warfighting, operations, and 
acquisition.  Because information gaps routinely limit our ability to predict with complete 
accuracy, it is incumbent on analysts to effectively apply tradecraft standards such as 
alternative analysis, levels of confidence, assumptions vs. judgments, and appropriate 
sourcing.  (T-1).  Intelligence warning and forecasting are not exact; however, analysts will 
utilize the most recent information for all warning or forecast-related analysis.  (T-1). 
A2.2.6.  Requirements  .  Analysts will continually engage with customers to comprehend 
their dynamic requirements.  (T-1).  Customer requirements can be solicited from a variety of 
sources such as:  understanding their operations; holding working groups or technical 
exchanges with them; anticipating and listening to their questions; responding to feedback; and 
addressing documented need statements and derivative data needs.  Effectively meeting 
analysis mission requirements demands an effective balance of customer familiarity, 
interpreted needs, collaboration, and analytical judgment. 
 
