BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-8 
13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
Operations 
DEFENSE SUPPORT OF  
CIVIL AUTHORITIES (DSCA) 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OA 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Major General Charles S. Corcoran)
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-8, 4 June 2018 
Pages: 10 
 
 
This Department of Air Force Policy Directive implements Department of Defense Directive 
(DoDD) 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA); Department of Defense 
Instruction (DoDI) 3025.16, Defense Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer (EPLO) Programs; 
DoDI 3025.20, Defense Support of Special Events; DoDI 3025.21, Defense Support of Civilian 
Law Enforcement Agencies; DoDI 3025.22, The Use of the National Guard for Defense Support 
of Civil Authorities; DoDI 3025.23, Domestic Defense Liaison with Civil Authorities; DoDI 
3025.24, DoD Public Health and Medical Services in Support of Civil Authorities; and Joint 
Publication 3-28, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), and is consistent with DoDD 
3025.13, Employment of DoD Capabilities in Support of the U.S. Secret Service (USSS), 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This publication establishes policy to ensure that the 
Department of the Air Force plans, organizes, and trains forces to conduct operations for Defense 
Support of Civil Authorities within the United States and its territories and protectorates consistent 
with the Department of the Air Force mission. 
This publication applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air 
Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, the United States Space Force, the Civil Air 
Patrol when conducting missions as the official Air Force Auxiliary, all Department of the Air 
Force civilian employees, and those with a contractual obligation to abide by the terms of 
Department of the Air Force issuances.  Refer recommended changes and questions about this 
publication to OPR, 1480 Air Force Pentagon (1E730), Washington, D.C. 20330-1480 or 
af.a3oa.workflow@us.af.mil using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.  
Route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional authority’s chain of 
2 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
command.  This DAFPD may not be supplemented.  Ensure all records generated as a result of 
processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records 
Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air 
Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information 
Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include updates to titles of the office of primary responsibility from AF/A3OB (Current Operations 
Division) to AF/A3OA (Civil Support Division); addition of United States Space Force and other 
Headquarters Air Force organizations; policy; and reference documents in this publication, as well 
as clarification of organizational roles and responsibilities to manage Department of the Air Force 
efforts to prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate natural or man-made disasters. 
 
 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
3 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Defense Support of Civil Authorities is support provided by U.S. federal military forces, 
DoD civilians, DoD contract personnel, DoD Component assets, Civil Air Patrol (when 
performing Air Force-assigned missions in AF Auxiliary status), and National Guard forces 
(when the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the governors of the affected states, elects 
and requests to use those forces in Title 32, United States Code (USC), status) in response to 
a request for assistance from civil authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement 
support, cyberspace incident response, and other domestic activities or from qualifying entities 
for special events.  Defense Support of Civil Authorities includes support to prepare, prevent, 
protect, respond, and recover from domestic incidents.  Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
is not support provided in response to foreign disasters (e.g., foreign consequence management 
or foreign humanitarian assistance/disaster response). 
1.2.  This policy directive assigns responsibilities and establishes policy for Department of the 
Air Force organizations providing Defense Support of Civil Authorities in coordination with 
lead federal agencies and law enforcement officials, in accordance with Public Law, Executive 
Orders, and DoD policy.  Department of the Air Force warfighting capabilities constitute the 
basis for support to designated domestic civil authorities as outlined in the National Response 
Framework and the National Strategy for Homeland Security. 
2.  Policy.  To ensure readiness to conduct Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning and 
response operations, the Department of the Air Force will: 
2.1.  Establish measureable operational and enabling standards and requirements derived from 
warfighting capabilities in order to determine the equipment, training, manpower, and ancillary 
resources needed to conduct and sustain Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning 
activities and response operations. 
2.2.  Develop and incorporate Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning and response 
concepts into appropriate Department of the Air Force guidance and appropriate training and 
education courses. 
2.3.  Develop Defense Support of Civil Authorities concepts, policies, and guidance as 
necessary to assist with national efforts to synchronize national (federal, state, local, tribal, and 
territorial) preparedness. 
2.4.  Ensure appropriate Department of the Air Force inspections and assessments include an 
evaluation of a unit’s compliance with Defense Support of Civil Authorities related policy, 
guidance, and instructions. 
2.5.  Plan, program, and budget for and report warfighting capabilities that may be used to 
support Defense Support of Civil Authorities operations. 
2.6.  Obtain reimbursement for support provided to civil authorities when authorized or 
mandated by Public Law (Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 
Title 42 USC Sections 5121-5207, or Economy Act, Title 31 USC Section 1535), Executive 
Order (Executive Order 12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities), and 
DoD policy in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial 
Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM). 
4 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
2.7.  Organize, train, equip and fund a Department of the Air Force Emergency Preparedness 
Liaison Officer program. 
2.8.  Establish policy, guidance, and instruction for Department of the Air Force support of law 
enforcement activities consistent with military preparedness, national security requirements, 
and applicable law. 
3.  Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will: 
3.1.1.  Provide incident response guidance to recover chemical, biological, radiological, 
and nuclear contaminated human remains and their associated personal effects; and 
coordinate storage and handling of fatalities to designated collection points within the 
incident site. 
3.1.2.  Provide mortuary affairs support as directed. 
3.1.3.  Implement policy and provide guidance for integrating and vetting Defense Support 
of Civil Authorities education and training requirements or learning outcomes into 
professional military education and ancillary training. 
3.1.4.  Coordinate with the SAF/FM to provide Manpower Appropriations Days to support 
reserve forces tasked to respond to a request for assistance supporting a lead federal agency. 
3.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6) will: 
3.2.1.  Implement policy and provide guidance for planning, programming, training, and 
budgeting resources necessary to ensure the Department of the Air Force has the capability 
to provide incident awareness and assessment data to supported agencies to prepare for, 
respond to, and recover from natural or man-made disasters in accordance with the 
Executive Order 12333, United States Intelligence Activities, Joint Publication 3-28, 
Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), and applicable federal statutes. 
3.2.2.  Oversee the development and sustainment of integrated, interoperable and network-
centric communications infrastructure that is survivable in all-hazard environments. 
3.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) will: 
3.3.1.  Serve as the Air Force focal point for Defense Support of Civil Authorities policy, 
guidance, and instruction in collaboration with the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint 
Staff, Services, Combatant Commanders, National Guard Bureau, and other federal and 
state offices and agencies. 
3.3.2.  Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of Defense Support of 
Civil Authorities planning and response operations doctrine, policy, guidance, instructions, 
and operational standards. 
3.3.3.  Coordinate with AF/A1 to integrate processes and principles of Defense Support of 
Civil Authorities into institutional education and training requirements in the appropriate 
venues (e.g., accessions, professional military education, functional and unit training) prior 
to employment of the Total Force. 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
5 
3.3.4.  Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of the Department of 
the Air Force Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer program. 
3.3.5.  Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of the Continuity of 
Operations program. 
3.3.6.  Coordinate with the Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) to establish Defense 
Support of Civil Authorities inspection requirements, as applicable. 
3.3.7.  Coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force 
Protection (AF/A4) to integrate Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning and 
response operations doctrine, policy, guidance, and instructions with emergency 
management, chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear response, explosive ordnance 
disposal, and force protection-related doctrine, policy, guidance, and instruction. 
3.3.8.  Coordinate with SAF/FM and AF/A1 to forecast Manpower Appropriations Days 
to support reserve forces tasked to support a lead federal agency. 
3.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) will: 
3.4.1.  Plan, program, organize, train, and exercise AF/A4 in support of Defense Support 
of Civil Authorities planning and response operations. 
3.4.2.  Oversee the aspects of explosive ordnance disposal, chemical, biological, 
radiological, and nuclear consequence management and Defense Support of Civil 
Authorities planning and response operations. 
3.4.3.  Manage Air Force Incident Management System to integrate policy, procedures and 
oversight relative to Department of the Air Force Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
policies and procedures, the National Incident Management System and installation 
support requested under the National Response Framework. 
3.4.4.  Coordinate with the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center and the Air 
Force Civil Engineer Center to integrate management and oversight of Air Force 
Installations in support of Defense Support of Civil Authorities missions. 
3.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will ensure Air Force strategic 
plans and program objective memorandums incorporate plans, programs, manpower, and 
equipment requirements to support Defense Support of Civil Authorities activities within the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense directed fiscal guidance. 
3.6.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) will 
develop Department of the Air Force policy and guidance for the nuclear enterprise and 
countering weapons of mass destruction mission. 
3.7.  Chief Operations Officer (SF/S2/3/4/6/7/10) will: 
3.7.1.  Serve as the United States Space Force focal point for Defense Support of Civil 
Authorities policy, guidance, and instruction in collaboration with the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, Services, Combatant Commanders, National Guard 
Bureau, and other federal and state offices and agencies. 
6 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
3.7.2.  Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of Defense Support of 
Civil Authorities planning and response operations doctrine, policy, guidance, instructions, 
and operational standards. 
3.7.3.  Coordinate with Chief Human Capital Officer (SF/S1) to integrate processes and 
principles of Defense Support of Civil Authorities into institutional education and training 
requirements in the appropriate venues (e.g., accessions, functional and unit training, and 
professional military education) prior to employment of the Total Force. 
3.7.4.  Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of the Continuity of 
Operations program. 
3.7.5.  Coordinate with the SAF/IG to ensure Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
inspection requirements, as applicable. 
3.7.6.  Coordinate with SAF/FM and SF/S1 to forecast Manpower Appropriations Days to 
support reserve forces tasked to support a lead federal agency. 
3.8.  Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) will advise the Secretary of the Air Force 
and Secretariat, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Chief of Space Operations, and, through 
functional chains, United States Air Force and United States Space Force commanders, and 
others involved in planning and executing Defense Support of Civil Authorities operations, on 
the legality of the proposed Defense Support of Civil Authorities operations.  In addition, in 
coordination with The Office of the Air Force General Counsel as appropriate, AF/JA will 
ensure that Air Force Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning and response operations 
doctrine, strategy, policy, guidance, and instructions comply with applicable law, Presidential 
Directives, Executive Orders, and DoD policy and guidance. 
3.9.  Office of the Surgeon General will: 
3.9.1.  Provide medical expertise to support the development of Department of the Air 
Force policies and procedures and associated medical response capabilities for Defense 
Support of Civil Authorities operations. 
3.9.2.  Provide functional expertise to integrate medical response capabilities into Defense 
Support of Civil Authorities planning activities and response operations to ensure medical 
forces are properly organized and trained to support Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
operations. 
3.9.3.  Serve as the chief medical advisor of the Air Force to the Director of the Defense 
Health Agency on matters pertaining to military health readiness requirements and safety 
of members of the Air Force and Space Force. 
3.10.  Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) will advise the Defense Support of Civil 
Authorities enterprise on Department of the Air Force inspection policy in accordance with 
Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 90-3, Inspector General, and, as necessary, 
provide inspection feedback and tools to support unit capability to conduct and sustain Defense 
Support of Civil Authorities operations consistent with their mission(s). 
 
 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
7 
3.11.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
(SAF/FM) will publish policy and guidance pertaining to reimbursement and accountability of 
United States Air Force, United States Space Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve 
appropriations expended in Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning through response 
phases of operations. 
3.12.  Office of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) will advise the Secretary of the Air 
Force and Secretariat on Defense Support of Civil Authorities planning and response 
operations doctrine, strategy, policy, guidance, and instructions ensuring their compliance with 
applicable law, Presidential Directives, Executive Orders, and DoD policy and guidance, in 
coordination with AF/JA as appropriate. 
3.13.  Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
(SAF/MR) provides guidance, direction, and oversight for Defense Support of Civil 
Authorities policy of the Reserve Component in accordance with Public Law, Executive 
Orders, and DoD policy. 
3.14.  The Commander, Air Force Reserve Command will ensure reserve forces are trained 
and equipped to support Defense Support of Civil Authorities operations. 
3.15.  Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) will: 
3.15.1.  Provide guidance and staff coordination for Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
issues related to the Air National Guard. 
3.15.2.  Supports State Adjutant Generals in efforts to maintain mission readiness to 
perform federal duties under Title 10, USC while also preparing to perform responsibilities 
under Title 32, USC or state active component. 
3.16.  Department of the Air Force Major Command, Field Command, Direct Reporting Unit, 
and Field Operating Agency commanders will develop plans, guidance, and procedures to 
organize and train forces to execute assigned Defense Support of Civil Authorities operations 
consistent with military preparedness, and coordinate Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
related activities, initiatives, and information through AF/A3. 
3.17.  The Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education will collect, 
validate, seek resolution, and disseminate lessons learned from major Defense Support of Civil 
Authorities operations and exercises. 
 
FRANK KENDALL III 
Secretary of the Air Force 
8 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 90-3, Inspector General, 3 February 2021 
Executive Order 12333, United States Intelligence Activities, 4 December 1981 
Executive Order 12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities, 18 November 
1988 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Title 42 USC Sections 5121-
5207 
Title 10 USC Sections 271-284, Military Support for Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies 
Economy Act, Title 31 USC Section 1535 
Title 32 USC, National Guard 
National Strategy for Homeland Security, Oct 2007 
National Response Framework 4th Edition, Jun 2019 
DoDD 3025.13, Employment of DoD Capabilities in Support of the U.S. Secret Service (USSS), 
Department of Homeland Security (DHS), 8 October 2010 
DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities, 29 December 2010 
DoDI 3025.16, Defense Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer (EPLO) Programs, 8 
September 2011 
DoDI 3025.20, Defense Support of Special Events, 6 April 2012 
DoDI 3025.21, Defense Support of Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies, 27 February 2013 
DoDI 3025.22, The Use of the National Guard for Defense Support of Civil Authorities, 26 July 
2013 
DoDI 3025.23, Domestic Defense Liaison with Civil Authorities, 25 May 2016 
DoDI 3025.24, DoD Public Health and Medical Services in Support of Civil Authorities, 30 
January 2017 
Joint Publication 3-28, Defense Support of Civil Authorities, 29 October 2018 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
 
 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
9 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (United States Air Force) 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations (United States Air Force)  
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (United States Air Force) 
AF/A3O—Director of Current Operations (United States Air Force) 
AF/A3OA—Civil Support Division (United States Air Force) 
AF/A3OB—Current Operations Division (United States Air Force) 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics Engineering and Force Protection (United States Air 
Force) 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (United States 
Air Force) 
AFI—Air Force Instruction  
AF/JA—Air Force Judge Advocate General 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DHS—Department of Homeland Security 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
NGB/CF—Director, Air National Guard 
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller 
SAF/GC—General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force 
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of the Inspector General  
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SF/S1—Chief Human Capital Officer (United States Space Force) 
SF/S2/3/4/6/7/10—Chief Operations Officer (United States Space Force) 
USC—United States Code 
USSS—United States Secret Service 
10 
DAFPD10-8  13 SEPTEMBER 2022 
Terms 
Civil Authorities—Those elected and appointed officers and employees who constitute the 
government of the U.S., the governments of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, U.S. possessions and territories, and political subdivisions thereof. 
Continuity of Operations—An effort within individual organizations to ensure they can continue 
to perform their essential functions during a disruption of normal operations, including a wide 
range of emergencies, including localized acts of nature, accidents, and technological or attack 
related emergencies. 
Emergency Preparedness—Measures taken in advance of an emergency to reduce the loss of life 
and property and to protect a nation’s institutions from all types of hazards through a 
comprehensive emergency management program of preparedness, mitigation, response and 
recovery. 
Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer—A senior reserve officer (typically O-6 or O-5) who 
is a representative of one of the military departments or military services and is trained in Defense 
Support of Civil Authorities requirements, regulations, and law, and performs a liaison role in 
planning and coordinating military department and military service participation in support of civil 
authorities. 
Title 10 USC (Armed Forces)—Portion of U.S. law that relates to the Armed Forces of the U.S.  
Guidance is divided into 5 subtitles; one on general military law and one each for the Army, Navy 
and Marine Corps, the AF and the Reserve Components.  Title 10 USC Sections 271-284 govern 
military support for civilian law enforcement agencies. 
Title 32 USC (National Guard)—Portion of U.S. law that governs the National Guard.  In certain 
limited instances, specific statutory or Presidential authority allows for those forces to perform 
operational missions funded by the federal government, while they remain under the control of the 
governor.  The majority of activities conducted pursuant to Title 32, USC directly relate to training 
or other readiness requirements established by the Army and the Department of the Air Force in 
order to prepare the National Guard forces for their warfighting mission.  Any purpose, however, 
if approved by the President or Secretary of Defense, and otherwise permitted by law, may be 
accomplished in status under Title 32, USC in support of federal missions. 
 
