BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-13 
12 JANUARY 2023 
Operations 
DOCTRINE AND LESSONS LEARNED 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: LeMay Center/AFDD 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Maj Gen Charles S. Corcoran);  
Senior Coordinator (Maj Gen DeAnna Burt)
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-13, 17 January 2019 
 
Pages: 6 
 
 
This Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) implements Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff Instructions 5120.02E, Joint Doctrine Development System, and 3150.25H, Joint 
Lessons Learned Program. It establishes Department of the Air Force policy for development, 
management, conduct, and integration of service, joint, and multinational doctrine and lessons 
learned. It applies to all Regular Air Force, the United States Space Force (USSF), Air National 
Guard, Air Force Reserve, and Department of the Air Force civilian personnel tasked with the 
responsibility to develop and maintain Air Force and Space Force doctrine and lessons learned. 
Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to Air 
Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, and are 
disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the 
Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended changes and questions 
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the Department of the Air Force 
(DAF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the 
field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This DAFPD may not be 
supplemented. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes 
include the addition of doctrine and lessons learned responsibilities of the USSF, as a service under 
2 
DAFPD10-13  12 JANUARY 2023 
the Department of the Air Force (DAF); and the doctrine and lessons learned coordination 
responsibilities between the United States Air Force (USAF) and USSF. 
 
 
DAFPD10-13  12 JANUARY 2023 
3 
1.  Policy.  The Department of the Air Force will: 
1.1.  Develop, promulgate, and teach doctrine as a common frame of reference for the best way 
to employ airpower and spacepower. 
1.2.  Collect, validate, and resolve lessons from military operations, exercises, wargames, and 
related activity to develop lessons learned that will promote long-term, continuous 
improvement. Field operating agencies, direct reporting units, major commands, field 
commands, and USAF and USSF components at combatant commands shall designate an 
organization as lead for lessons learned activities. 
1.3.  Conduct issue resolution processes that turn lessons into lessons learned in both the USAF 
and USSF. 
2.  Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities. 
2.1.  The Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (the LeMay 
Center) acts as the USAF single point of contact for developing, disseminating, and advocating 
USAF, joint, and multinational doctrine, at both the basic and operational levels of doctrine. 
The Commander, LeMay Center, is the USAF principal agent for basic and operational USAF 
doctrine and USAF lessons learned, and provides the USAF input to joint doctrine. The 
principal agent is the official with principal responsibility for developing, coordinating and 
promulgating the doctrine and lessons learned as stated. In this capacity, the Commander, 
LeMay Center, reports directly to, and has authority to directly communicate with, the Chief 
of Staff of the Air Force for all doctrinal and USAF lessons learned matters. 
2.1.1.  The LeMay Center Air Force Doctrine Development Directorate conducts the 
USAF doctrine development program. The LeMay Center Director of Air Force Doctrine 
Development designates an office of primary responsibility for USAF basic and 
operational level doctrine and joint and multinational doctrine programs for which the 
USAF has been designated as lead agent of a joint publication or assigned custodianship 
of a multinational publication. The Air Force Doctrine Development Directorate gathers, 
shares, and distributes information by direct communication with those USAF 
organizations having pertinent capabilities and expertise, as needed, to perform its duties, 
including conducting regular meetings with those organizations. The Air Force Doctrine 
Development Directorate coordinates on joint and multinational doctrine for which the 
USAF is not designated as lead agent or custodian. The Air Force Doctrine Development 
Directorate coordinates directly with joint and sister service doctrine development offices 
as necessary on matters related to service, joint, and multinational doctrine development. 
2.1.2.  The LeMay Center leads the USAF lessons learned program providing guidance for 
the USAF lessons learned process and facilitating the USAF issue resolution process for 
the USAF Vice Chief of Staff. The USAF lessons learned program provides an 
institutionalized program to allow Airmen to learn from the experiences of others and use 
this knowledge to make improvements to doctrine, organization, training, materiel, 
leadership and education, personnel, facilities, and policy. The USAF lessons learned 
program provides USAF support to the joint lessons learned program. To ensure this 
support, the LeMay Center appoints a lesson manager and a joint lessons learned 
information system administrator. The LeMay Center participates in the joint force issue 
resolution process and the joint lessons learned working group. 
4 
DAFPD10-13  12 JANUARY 2023 
2.1.3.  The LeMay Center Liaison Directorate at the Pentagon acts as the point of contact 
for USAF doctrine and assists the Office of the Chief of Space Operations as required. The 
USAF Lessons Learned Liaison Office, operating in conjunction with the Liaison 
Directorate, acts as point of contact for lessons learned matters. The Liaison Directorate 
conducts formal joint doctrine coordination in accordance with Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff Instruction 5711.01C, Policy on Action Processing. The USAF Lessons 
Learned Liaison Office conducts formal joint lessons learned coordination in accordance 
with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3150.25H, Joint Lessons Learned 
Program. The LeMay Center Liaison Directorate also completes service-level coordination 
for final approval of USAF basic level doctrine. 
2.2.  USAF major commands provide technical review for doctrine development in their areas 
of responsibility. Either major commands (for USAF tactics, techniques, and procedures) or 
the issuing organizations are responsible for developing, coordinating, and publishing tactical 
doctrine manuals. They also ensure all tactical doctrine manuals and pamphlets are consistent 
with USAF and joint doctrine; to that end, they coordinate with the LeMay Center. Major 
commands comment on various USAF, joint, multi-service, or multinational doctrine 
development projects as available. Additionally, major commands, other USAF components 
such as those at combatant commands, direct reporting units, and field operating agencies 
designate an organization as lead for lessons learned activities and perform lessons learned 
functions. 
2.3.  Inspector General, safety, and history functions, due to different missions and 
responsibilities, may not be combined in the same office with a lessons learned function. 
Inspector General, safety, and history functions shall send lessons identified in the course of 
their activities to their echelon’s lessons learned activities. 
2.4.  The Space Training and Readiness Command (STARCOM) develops USSF doctrine and 
conducts the joint lessons learned program for USSF. STARCOM acts as the USSF single 
point of contact for developing, disseminating, and advocating all USSF, joint, and 
multinational doctrine, at the capstone, keystone operational, and tactical levels of doctrine. 
The Commander, STARCOM, is the USSF principal agent for USSF doctrine and USSF 
lessons learned, and provides the USSF input to joint doctrine. The principal agent is the 
official with principal responsibility for developing, coordinating and promulgating the 
doctrine and lessons learned as stated. In this capacity, the Commander, STARCOM, reports 
directly to, and has authority to directly communicate with, the Chief of Space Operations for 
all doctrinal and USSF lessons learned matters. STARCOM is responsible for format 
guidelines, final editing, and overseeing design and layout, as well as developing and 
maintaining distribution lists for doctrine and USSF-level lessons learned products. 
2.4.1.  STARCOM’s Space Delta 10 conducts the USSF doctrine development program. 
The Delta 10 Commander designates an office of primary responsibility for USSF basic 
and operational level doctrine, joint doctrine, and multinational doctrine programs for 
which the USSF has been designated as lead agent of a joint publication or assigned 
custodianship of a multinational publication. 
2.4.1.1.  Delta 10 coordinates on joint and multinational doctrine for which the joint 
staff has not designated USSF as lead agent or custodian. 
DAFPD10-13  12 JANUARY 2023 
5 
2.4.1.2.  Delta 10 coordinates directly with joint and sister service doctrine 
development offices as necessary on matters related to service, joint, and multinational 
doctrine development. 
2.4.1.3.  Delta 10 facilitates tactical doctrine development. Space Delta commanders 
are the office of primary responsibility for tactical doctrine development for their 
respective mission areas. 
2.4.1.4.  Delta 10 gathers, shares, and distributes information by direct communication 
with those USSF organizations having pertinent capabilities and expertise, as needed, 
to perform its duties, including conducting regular meetings with those organizations. 
2.4.1.5.  Delta 10 completes Office of the Chief of Space Operations coordination for 
final approval of USSF basic and operational level doctrine. 
2.4.2.  Delta 10 leads the USSF Lessons Learned Program. The USSF Lessons Learned 
Program provides guidance, establishes processes, and develops standards for major real-
world and exercise activities. The program is designed to support USSF commanders and 
units in improving mission operations and support processes by collecting, validating, 
tracking, integrating, disseminating, and updating lessons learned and associated issues 
using USSF-developed standards and metrics across the force. The program allows 
Guardians to use this information to make informed decisions to improve doctrine, 
organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, policy, and 
investment decisions, enabling a leaner and more agile force. The USSF lessons learned 
program works closely with the USAF lessons learned program to support the DAF and 
provides USSF support to the joint lessons learned program. 
2.5.  USSF field commands and deltas provide technical review for doctrine development in 
their areas of responsibility. Delta commanders are the approval authority for tactical doctrine 
for their respective mission areas. STARCOM Delta 10, in support of the deltas for USSF 
tactics, techniques, and procedures, is responsible for overseeing, standardizing, coordinating, 
and publishing tactical doctrine manuals. Delta 10 also ensures all tactical doctrine manuals 
and pamphlets are consistent with joint and USSF basic and operational doctrine. Field 
commands and deltas review and comment on applicable USSF, joint, multi-Service, or 
multinational doctrine development projects. Additionally, deltas and other USSF 
organizations such as those at combatant commands, field operating agencies, and direct 
reporting units, will designate an organization as lead for lessons learned activities and perform 
lessons learned functions. 
2.6.  As required, the LeMay Center and STARCOM directly coordinate on DAF equities. 
 
FRANK KENDALL 
Secretary of the Air Force 
6 
DAFPD10-13  12 JANUARY 2023 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
CJCSI 3150.25H, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 30 December 2021 
CJCSI 5120.02E, Joint Doctrine Development System, 6 November 2020 
CJCSI 5711.01C, Policy on Action Processing, 10 September 2010 
AFI 10-1302, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 30 July 2019 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
STARCOM—Space Training and Readiness Command 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Operations 
LeMay Center/AFDD—LeMay Center for Air Force Doctrine Development 
SF/COO—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Operations 
Terms 
Doctrine—Fundamental principles by which military forces guide their actions in support of 
national objectives (derived from CJCSI 5120.02, Joint Doctrine Development System). 
Lesson learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the strategic, 
operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an individual or an 
organization (AFI 10-1302, Air Force Lessons Learned Program). 
Principal agent—The official with principal responsibility for developing, coordinating and 
promulgating the doctrine and lessons learned as stated. 
 
