 
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE 
WASHINGTON, DC 
 
DAFPM2024-10-16 
26 September 2024 
 
MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C 
                                MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs/FOAs/DRUs 
 
FROM:  Secretary of the Air Force 
 
SUBJECT:  Department of the Air Force Policy Memorandum Establishing Authority for 
Implementation of Increasing Space Launch Capacity Through Space Launch 
Support Services 
 
By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Department of the Air Force Policy 
Memorandum (DAFPM) is the first instance of a to-be published Space Force publication that 
immediately implements the authorities established in 10 U.S.C. § 2276a.  Compliance with this 
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Department 
of the Air Force (DAF) publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with 
Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) 90-160, Publications and Forms Management 
and Department of the Air Force Manual (DAFMAN) 90-161, Publishing Processes and 
Procedures. This policy is applicable to United States Space Force, and Regular Air Force Delta 
or MAJCOM providing commercial space support or services IAW10 U.S.C. § 2276a.  
The attachment to this memorandum delegates authorities to the Space Force and 
provides guidance on implementation 10 U.S.C. § 2276a, Special Authority for provision of 
space launch support to increase space launch capacity.   
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to 
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
Program, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule 
(RDS) which is located in the Air Force Records Management System. 
This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this 
Memorandum, or upon publishing of a new Policy Directive permanently establishing this 
policy, whichever is earlier. 
 
 
 
FRANK KENDALL 
Secretary of the Air Force 
 
Attachment: 
Implementation Guidance 
IMPLEMENTATION GUIDANCE 
 
 
1. Pursuant to the passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2024 National Defense Authorization Act 
(NDAA), Congress provided the special authority for provisioning of space launch support 
services to increase space launch capacity at United States Space Force (USSF) spaceports and 
DAF installations. 
 
2. Policy 
 
 
a.  Agreements: Installation commanders shall modify existing contracts or other 
transaction authorities, and enter into new agreements as necessary, with commercial entities 
(defined in 10 U.S.C. § 2276a as non-Federal entities) to allow the collection of indirect cost 
reimbursements for launch support services provided by DAF installations.  These agreements 
shall be executed with commercial entities at each installation. Installation commanders shall 
determine if requested support to commercial entities is in the national interest prior to 
committing to provide services.  Installation commanders may mandate specific services for the 
commercial entities if those services contribute to the safety, security, and operational efficiency 
of the installation.  Any agreement shall also specify that availability of services may be 
restricted at any time due to operational requirements. 
 
 
b.  Pricing:  Direct cost reimbursement shall be collected for any launch support services 
provided on DAF spaceports and installations to commercial space entities.  The indirect costs of 
providing goods or services to commercial providers under agreements in paragraph 2.a shall 
also be collected.   Indirect costs may be collected from commercial entities through the 
establishment of a rate, as a fixed price, or other method as appropriate for the service provided.  
Fees shall be established consistent with the best practices and requirements of DoD 7000.14-R 
Financial Management Regulation, Volume 11A, Chapter 4 and Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-25, as applicable. In accordance with direction in 10 U.S.C. § 2276a any 
reimbursement, direct or indirect, shall be credited to the appropriation account from which it 
came.    The appropriation account must be identified prior to the reimbursement being collected.  
It is essential that the Department be fully transparent with industry.  Commanders, and their 
staffs, will have engagements with industry to discuss the collection methodology, how rates or 
fixed prices are set, and how often rates will be reviewed and established. 
 
 
c.  Limitations:  10 U.S.C § 2276a imposed limitations on indirect cost reimbursement for 
fiscal year 2024 through fiscal year 2026.  In accordance with these limitations per commercial 
entity agreement, installations may collect indirect costs limited to no more than 30% of total 
direct cost reimbursement.  Additionally, no more than $5M total may be collected annually 
from a commercial entity per agreement.  Installation commanders may utilize a lower rate or 
more restrictive reimbursement limit if additional resources are not needed to sustain space 
launch support services.  Any such limitations should be applied to all commercial entities the 
installation supports.  After the limitation period (FY24-FY26) expires, indirect reimbursement 
shall be collected, as needed, for continued space launch support services capacity growth 
incorporating a pricing methodology that is transparent to, and informed by, our industry 
partners. 
 
3. Roles and Responsibilities. 
 
a.  Space Force Chief Operations Officer (SF/COO) will: 
 
(1) Lead implementation of this policy. 
(2) Coordinate actions with SAF/GC, AF/JA, SAF/FM, SAF/SQ and SSC to resolve any 
questions or concerns. 
(3) Ensure all applicable reporting requirements are submitted. 
(4) Develop, or update, a DAF Policy Directive to codify the guidance in this 
Memorandum. 
 
b. The Commander, Space Systems Command (SSC) will: 
(1) Execute lead command responsibilities and duties for space launch support to 
commercial entities IAW DAFPD 10-9, Lead Command/Lead Agent Designation and 
Responsibilities for United States Air Force Weapon Systems, Non-Weapon Systems, and 
Activities. 
(2) Provide guidance for managing agreements with commercial entities. 
(3) Space Launch Deltas (SLDs) will execute the collection of direct/indirect cost 
reimbursements. 
 
4.Space Systems Command (SSC) is the lead command for space launch support to commercial 
entities and shall incorporate future DAF/SF guidance in any updates to instructions for the 
SLDs.  Other commands shall consider if guidance is appropriate based on the level of 
commercial space entity activity on their subordinate installations.  Any additional commands 
beyond SSC issuing instructions should consult with SSC to facilitate consistent application of 
this guidance across the industry.  SAF/FM shall provide any additional collection process, 
policy, or requirements. 
 
