BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 13-1 
21 APRIL 2021 
Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and 
Control Operations 
COMMAND AND  
CONTROL (C2) ENTERPRISE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3TY 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD13-1, 6 August 2012 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Joseph T. Guastella, Jr.) 
Pages: 15 
 
 
This Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) implements portions of Department 
of Defense (DoD) Directive 3700.01, DoD Command and Control Enabling Capabilities.  This 
directive is consistent with policy and responsibilities established in DAFPD 17-1, Information 
Dominance Governance and Management.  This directive establishes key, broad policy for the 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) Command and Control enterprise.  The directive establishes 
policy for the integrating aspects of C2 capabilities across functional and geographic commands.  
The Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer holds responsibility for oversight and 
execution of information dominance governance and management.  Nuclear policy and guidance 
is not contained in this publication.  This directive applies to all uniformed members and civilian 
employees of the Regular Air Force, United States Space Force (USSF), Air Force Reserve, and 
Air National Guard.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this 
publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information 
Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition 
Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  Refer 
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility 
using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.  This publication may 
not be supplemented. 
2 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include:  adds and obligates the USSF to this document as a DAF organization, defines United 
States Air Force (USAF) component enterprise and associated geographical and functional 
components; identifies the air operations center (AOC) and the functional (space, cyber, special 
forces, etc.) operations center as the weapons system of record for Air and Space Force 
components; defines Air and Space Force Component force structure; highlights the requirement 
for Air and Space Force Component’s weapon system interoperability; introduces concepts for 
joint all-domain operations (JADO) and joint all-domain C2 (JADC2); defines the USAF Joint 
Task Force Headquarters initiative; redefines the broad roles and responsibilities for Deputy Chief 
of Staff of the Air Force, Operations (AF/A3), the USSF Chief Operations Officer (SF/COO), and 
other stakeholders; removes references to the C2 Core Function Lead; directs Headquarters Air 
Combat Command (ACC) Commander to manage USAF C2 requirements and capabilities as part 
of a single enterprise; directs ACC to define 505th Command and Control Wing’s system 
requirements for program resources to improve warfighter capability; directs ACC to provide 
requirements to the AOC Weapon System Program Management Office; revises the Glossary of 
References and Supporting Information sections in Attachment 1 to reflect the appropriate 
references; and updates terminology and definitions.  Public Law 115-232, National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, established the USSF which incorporates proper 
formatting of Public Law reference.  The creation of the USSF and subsequent transfer of forces 
will drive future revisions to this directive as service command and control constructs mature. 
 
 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
3 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Joint force operations in all domains are becoming increasingly interconnected, 
interdependent, and challenged.  Anti-access and area denial threats, reduced freedom of 
maneuver, and rapid proliferation of advanced technologies challenge the DAF’s ability to 
operate effectively and efficiently in any one domain.  This operating environment requires 
both services to examine and refine how forces will observe, orient, decide, and act rapidly 
and in concert across all domains.  Achieving the necessary freedom of action will require the 
ability to converge effects over all domains in a way that presents an adversary with multiple 
dilemmas, with an operational tempo that complicates or negates adversary response and 
enables the joint force to operate inside the adversary’s decision-making cycle.  The 
complementary employment of capabilities in different domains will enhance effectiveness 
and compensate for vulnerabilities, creating all-domain synergy in outcomes not readily 
attainable through single-domain action. 
1.2.  To address this challenge, the DoD is developing an approach to JADO in which actions 
by the joint force in all domains are integrated in planning and synchronized in execution, at 
the speed and scale needed to gain advantage and accomplish the mission. 
1.3.  The DAF’s components support JADO by conducting operations principally in, from, and 
through the domains of air, space, cyberspace, the information environment, and the 
electromagnetic spectrum to enable convergence of effects in all domains.  The DAF must 
enhance its C2 capabilities to enable and support JADO at a tempo the adversary cannot match. 
1.4.  JADC2 is the emerging framework for describing the evolution of traditional C2 to 
support JADO.  The US Air Force and US Space Force organize, train, equip, and present air, 
space, and cyberspace forces capable of supporting effective JADO along with the ability to 
command and control them, even in a contested environment. 
1.5.  The C2 envisioned end state connects commanders, their support staffs, and fielded forces 
via a resilient architecture which enables air, space, and cyberspace capabilities. 
1.6.  The DAF C2 enterprise consists of the people, organizations, processes, procedures, 
information, communications, facilities and systems used to plan, direct, coordinate, and 
control forces and operations.  It includes the infrastructure and life-cycle activities for C2 
systems, components, and supporting systems; intellectual and technical competencies; and 
cultural mindset which ensures the effective and efficient employment of net-enabled, 
integrated, reliable and enduring USAF and USSF C2 forces. 
1.7.  Currently, day-to-day, at the operational level, the USAF organizes its C2 construct 
around the C2 operations center of the supported Combatant Commanders Air Force Service 
Component or the service component designated as the Combined/Joint Force Air Component 
Commander (C/JFACC).  The AOC works directly for the C/JFACC and the AOC can receive 
situational awareness building feeds from the theater air control system (TACS) or the Navy 
tactical air control system to aid in execution of operations in line with the commander’s intent. 
1.7.1.  The USAF C2 enterprise will include: the Air Force component enterprise 
(Commander, Air Force Forces staff, AOC, and supporting functional operations centers), 
the TACS, and the installation C2 elements. 
4 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
1.7.2.  The component enterprise consist of the Air Force components, Air Reserve 
Component units (both Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve units), JADC2 
experimentation and exercise support centers, Shadow Network, and ACC entities 
responsible for facilitating the enterprise-wide training of people and processes. 
1.7.3.  The current TACS is composed of the following weapon systems and elements: 
AOC, Air Support Operations Center, Tactical Air Control Party, Forward Air Controller 
(Airborne), Control and Reporting Center, the E-8C Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar 
System, and the E-3B/G Airborne Warning and Control System.  In addition, the battle 
control center is a fixed TACS element employed at the tactical level in support of 
homeland defense and civil support operations in the continental United States, Alaska, 
Hawaii, United States territories, and surrounding territorial waters and airspace. 
1.7.4.  The installation C2 elements consists of the command post, base defense operations 
center, wing operations center, fire dispatch, emergency operations center, maintenance 
operations center, intelligence, safety, base communications, civil engineers, airfield 
operations, and other base level organizations with the goal of protecting personnel, base 
infrastructure, and mission capabilities. 
1.8.  As the services pursue JADC2 materiel solutions (e.g., advanced battle management 
family of systems (ABMS)), they will ensure synchronization between the future C2 enterprise 
and the nuclear command, control and communications next generation.  Securing prudent 
coordination and mutually supportive relationships between JADC2 solutions and nuclear 
command, control and communications next generation will enable the warfighter in highly 
contested environments, allowing ordered transitions to fight in, around and through the 
spectrum of conventional-nuclear conflicts. 
1.9.  In the near-term, the USSF will continue to support Combatant Commands and the Space 
Coordinating Authority responsibilities via the USAF’s C2 enterprise.  Key to this will be 
USSF Directors of Space Forces within Air Operations Centers.  Supporting Directors of Space 
Forces is the US Space Command’s Combined Space Operations Center, which oversees 
global space operations and synchronizes space domain awareness activities with coalition 
partners.  Support to United States Space Command’s space-domain protect and defend 
mission will be via USSF personnel within the National Space Defense Center.  At the same 
time, the USSF is determining its long-term plan for service support to Combatant Commands. 
2.  Policy. 
2.1.  The DAF will develop C2 capabilities and capacity to accomplish assigned functions and 
tasks.  This must be predicated upon enterprise-wide agility and flexibility to plan early and 
respond effectively in unison with interdepartmental, non-governmental, and international 
partners.  To support that goal, USAF and USSF C2 capabilities must: 
2.1.1.  Be able to survive and operate despite degradation or loss of C2 nodes or links. 
2.1.2.  Enable improved access to tactical resources through national assets and greater 
effects in multiple domains. 
2.1.3.  Provide improved data fusion, data display, and tactical decision aids and 
applications. 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
5 
2.1.4.  Possess an active defense architecture which focuses on rapid threat detection by 
providing systems and processes designed from the beginning to resist intrusion and 
interference, provide resiliency through multiple mission pathways, and support and 
integrate support for the Combatant Command to provide rapid response and active 
defense. 
2.1.5.  Be network enabled for potential of dislocated leader operations, and ready to 
operate in complex, chaotic and degraded information environments. 
2.1.6.  Be agile and flexible, and enable commanders and forces to quickly transition from 
one operation to another or to conduct multiple operations simultaneously across multiple 
domains, regardless of location. 
2.1.7.  Integrate and interoperate with coalition partners and allies to rapidly receive and 
disseminate appropriately classified information and actions.  Be able to integrate and 
interoperate with joint, select coalition, and allied forces; as well as synchronize with 
governmental and non-governmental organizations to ensure unity of effort, maximize the 
contribution of partners, and create the desired effects necessary to achieve the mission. 
2.2.  In order to provide commanders with the ability to quickly respond to near peer threats 
and events and integrate the appropriate mix of capabilities, the C2 enterprise will: 
2.2.1.  Develop, test, and validate new C2 operating concepts that enhance command 
relationships, authorities, processes, procedures, and doctrine to effectively support JADO. 
2.2.2.  Mature the concepts of reach back and distributed operations and be capable of 
decentralized execution during periods of degraded operations. 
2.2.3.  Rapidly leverage advanced technology to improve situational awareness across the 
Joint Force and improve the quality and speed of decision making, to focus the force’s 
ability to direct lethal and non-lethal capabilities across the full spectrum of JADO. 
2.2.4.  Prioritize efforts to improve relevant support structures for C2 that enable JADO 
training and education, and security policy and processes. 
2.2.5.  Conduct regular, substantive small and large-scale experiments and exercises to 
quickly validate or reject new concepts, processes, systems and organizational structures 
designed to enable more effective operational approaches. 
2.3.  The DAF C2 enterprise will provide manpower for combat and combat support forces 
who are directly responsible for emergency action messages from the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, Headquarters Air Force, Headquarters Space Force, or Combatant Commands.  
In order to properly meet these joint force requirements: 
2.3.1.  The USAF and USSF will shape their personnel and processes to fully support 
JADC2 operations for combatant commands and the joint warfighter. 
2.3.2.  The DAF will provide facilities, equipment, procedures, and staffing to support and 
sustain military C2 operations. 
2.4.  The C2 processes and systems of functional and geographic Air Force Forces staffs, 
AOCs or functional operations center, imbedded USSF personnel and assigned and attached 
forces must be interoperable to ensure seamless exchange of data, requirements, plans, and 
programs across the C2 enterprise. 
6 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
3.  Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Commander, Air Force Forces, imbedded USSF personnel and staffs will monitor air, 
space and cyberspace, to plan, decide, direct, and support forces across the range of military 
operations.  This includes the requisite personnel, technology, and processes to make and 
disseminate informed and timely decisions to the appropriate forces and organizations.  Tasks 
include but are not limited to: 
3.1.1.  Executing standardized processes and procedures to employ integrated systems at 
all levels down to and including installation C2, as required. 
3.1.2.  Using commonly accepted joint C2 tools, doctrine, and processes (e.g., Operations 
Plans, Operations Orders, Fragmentary Orders, etc.), to the maximum extent possible. 
3.2.  When directed by the appropriate Joint Force Commander, Air Force Component 
Commanders and staffs (with appropriate augmentation and authority) will be prepared to: 
3.2.1.  When designated, accomplish the tasks of the C/JFACC, Joint Special Operations 
Air Component Commander, Area Air Defense Commander, Airspace Control Authority, 
Commander, United States Cyber Command, and Joint Electronic Warfare Coordinator. 
3.2.2.  Continue to execute Space Coordinating Authority authorities in support of 
Combatant Commanders as required and monitor space operations via the Directors of 
Space Forces until the USSF presentation model is implemented. 
3.2.3.  Form the core of a Joint Task Force Headquarters as set forth in Joint Publication 
3-33, Joint Task Force Headquarters. 
3.3.  Air and Space Force Component Commanders will act in a supporting and supported 
manner to effectively implement C2 global and theater operations and coordinate with other 
appropriately designated command authorities.  Air and Space Force components and 
associated AOCs support Geographic Combatant Commands or subordinate unified 
commands, use fielded AOC or Space Operations Center Program of Record system baseline 
and additional coalition-required unique systems, and are tailored to the regional mission and 
requirements. 
3.4.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition, Technology and Logistics, in 
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and 
Integration, will: 
3.4.1.  Oversee the acquisition and fielding of C2 capabilities. 
3.4.2.  Lead technology development risk reduction efforts to conduct C2 system 
demonstrations and prototypes. 
3.4.3.  Ensure C2 materiel solutions employ a modular and open design in order to enable 
frequent upgrades, technology insertion, and innovation. 
3.4.4.  Oversee the DAF Chief Architect functions. 
3.4.5.  Resolve C2 architecture differences between the DAF Chief Architect and Program 
Executive Offices. 
 
 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
7 
3.5.  AF/A3 will: 
3.5.1.  Provide a common forum for stakeholders to provide advice and assessments on 
overall C2 capability needs. 
3.5.2.  Coordinate, in conjunction with Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Strategy, 
Integration and Requirements (AF/A5) and the USSF Chief Strategy and Resources Officer 
(SF/CSRO), current development, implementation, and sustainment efforts of the DoD 
Joint Global C2 System family of systems and associated programs to: 
3.5.2.1.  Facilitate evolution of existing C2 capabilities in the DoD Joint Global C2 
System family of system-to-joint C2 way-ahead. 
3.5.2.2.  Enhance interoperability with related C2 systems. 
3.5.3.  Define and shape, in coordination with Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, 
Manpower, Personnel and Services, the operational-level C2 career fields for the Multi-
Domain Warfare Officer and Information Operations Officer and associated enlisted career 
fields, including all necessary activities needed for effective career field management. 
3.5.4.  Shape, in coordination with Major Command (MAJCOM) operations, plans and 
requirements (A3), the United States Air Force Warfare Center, and the Curtis E. LeMay 
Center for Doctrine Development and Education, the evolution and validation of new C2 
tactics, techniques, and procedures, and facilitate their incorporation into doctrine. 
3.5.5.  Be the lead agent, through the Air Force Flight Standards Agency, for Airfield 
Operations capability development, concept of operations, and sustainment and 
modernization program resources for both geographic and functional USAF components. 
3.5.6.  Coordinate with the SF/COO on issues affecting both the USAF and USSF as 
required. 
3.6.  Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection will: 
3.6.1.  Develop and provide strategic warfighter communications. 
3.6.2.  Provide expertise, advocacy, and requirements for those logistics, engineering and 
force protection elements within the installation C2 enterprise in order to protect personnel, 
base infrastructure, and mission capabilities. 
3.6.3.  Coordinate with the SF/COO on issues affecting both services as required. 
3.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, 
will: 
3.7.1.  Develop and provide, in conjunction with AF/A3 and AF/A5, systems that enable 
strategic warfighter communications. 
3.7.2.  Provide advocacy to enable Air Force Forces to generate, project, and provide 
resilient global assured communications, and provide cyberspace capabilities to enhance 
Air Force core missions in air, cyberspace, and the electromagnetic spectrum. 
3.7.3.  Coordinate with the SF/COO on issues affecting both services as required. 
 
 
8 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
3.8.  Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Strategy, Integration and Requirements will: 
3.8.1.  Provide, in conjunction with AF/A3, coordination, synchronization, and integration 
of joint C2 capabilities with the DoD Joint Global C2 system family of systems/Joint C2 
family of programs and related C2 programs. 
3.8.2.  Be responsible for the organization, analysis, and prioritization of joint warfighting 
capabilities. 
3.8.3.  Provide the assessments and recommendations required for the Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council to validate and prioritize joint military cyber capabilities. 
3.8.4.  Ensure the Air Force Warfighter Integration Capability will: 
3.8.4.1.  Drive enterprise-wide C2 integration, guide future force design, and 
recommend resource alignment by centralizing C2 enterprise design and capability 
planning across the Air Force. 
3.8.4.2.  Be the lead agency in developing an installation C2 concept of operations, 
considering a base-wide common operating picture, situational awareness beyond the 
base perimeter, air base defenses, assured communications, and continuity of 
operations. 
3.8.5.  Coordinate with the SF/COO on issues affecting both services as required. 
3.9.  Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Plans and Programs will: 
3.9.1.  Provide formal collaboration between the operational community, C2 capability 
developers, and materiel developers to ensure developed products meet C2 capability 
needs. 
3.9.2.  Review and develop C2 resource allocation issues during program and budget 
review, and make recommendations to the 3-Star Programmers Group. 
3.9.3.  Coordinate with the SF/CSRO on issues affecting both services as required. 
3.10.  All USAF MAJCOMs, USSF Field Commands, and Air and Space Force Service 
Component Headquarters will: 
3.10.1.  Provide forces in support of global contingency operations. 
3.10.2.  Provide command, control, and support infrastructure of the Air Force components 
which includes both geographic and functional component MAJCOMs and component 
numbered air forces. 
3.10.3.  Determine, in conjunction with AF/A3 and the Geographic and Functional 
Combatant Commanders, what additional component numbered air forces or component 
MAJCOMs will develop additional core Joint Task Force Headquarters. 
3.10.4.  Direct changes to unit integration and alignment based on strategic priorities.  The 
Air Force Reserve Component, consisting of the Air Force Reserve and Air National 
Guard, will direct unit changes based on both strategic priorities and guidance received 
from the lead command (ACC). 
3.10.5.  Provide operational control through the AOCs and operations centers critical 
support nodes and Air Force Forces staff, as well as support administrative C2. 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
9 
3.10.6.  Provide a sufficient number of C2 cadre capable of performing and supporting the 
roles of Commander, Air Force Forces, Commander, Air Force Special Operations Forces, 
C/JFACC, Joint Special Operations Air Component Commander, Commander, and Joint 
Task Force. 
3.10.7.  Leverage advanced technology to improve situational awareness as well as the 
quality and speed of decision making, and focus the Air Force’s ability to direct kinetic 
and non-kinetic forces and capabilities across the full spectrum of operations and across all 
domains. 
3.10.8.  Ensure, to the maximum extent possible, that exercises, wargames, and training 
events include learning objectives with C2 of JADO. 
3.10.9.  Ensure learning objectives drive operational-level tactics for advanced battle 
management, JADC2 force packaging, dynamic distributed control, condition-based 
authorities, and other comparable concepts. 
3.10.10.  Ensure that installation C2 spans the full range of in-garrison, expeditionary 
installation, and joint basing operations (e.g., emergency operations, disaster response, 
combat operations, air mobility operations, etc.). 
3.11.  Air Combat Command (ACC), as lead command for C2, will: 
3.11.1.  In coordination with other stakeholders, develop governance for the Air Force 
component C2 enterprise. 
3.11.2.  Manage USAF C2 requirements and capabilities as part of a single enterprise.  
ACC will advocate for sustainment and modernization program resources for both 
geographic and functional Air Force components, 461st Air Control Wing, 552nd Air 
Control Wing, 700th Air Support Squadron, Combined AOC, 505th Command and Control 
Wing, Air Mobility Operations Squadrons, and the Air Reserve Component units.  Lead 
commands and lead agents manage their respective requirements and capability 
development for installation C2. 
3.11.3.  Collaborate with geographic and functional Air Force components in order to 
define AOC and operations center and Air Force Forces staff information exchange 
requirements and program for system resources to ensure geographic and global 
interoperability. 
3.11.4.  Provide requirements and direction to AOC Weapon System Program 
Management Office in order to field appropriate Air Operations Center hardware and 
software family of systems necessary for mission accomplishment. 
3.11.5.  Train, organize, equip, and posture highly qualified personnel organized for the C2 
of an assigned joint task force as an equitable strategic partner in the Global Response 
Force framework. 
3.11.6.  Manage Air Force tactical data links operational employment and tactical data link 
requirements, as an enabler of JADC2 to support joint and coalition interoperability. 
 
 
10 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
3.11.7.  Provide requirements and direction to Tactical Air Control Party Weapons System 
Program Management Office in order to field appropriate Tactical Air Control Party 
hardware and software family of systems necessary for Tactical Air Control Party, and Air 
Support Operations Center mission accomplishment. 
3.11.8.  Design, train, and certify designated core joint task force headquarters in 
accordance with joint standards and timelines. 
3.12.  Air Education and Training Command will: 
3.12.1.  Ensure the Air Force continuum of learning accounts for joint C2 matters across a 
career lifecycle, and ensure the USAF integrates the requisite knowledge, skills, and 
abilities as an essential component of the Total Force development. 
3.12.2.  In conjunction with ACC, Space Operations Command, Air Force Warfighter 
Integration Capability, and SF/CSRO, continue to execute a wargame series to explore 
joint all-domain warfighting concepts to improve interoperability between air, space, and 
cyber forces. 
3.12.3.  Ensure that Air Force forces’ development of continuum of learning incorporates 
joint all-domain operational concepts in support of improving joint warfighting excellence. 
3.12.4.  Redesign training and education for operational-level C2 personnel to ensure 
comprehensive ability to execute JADC2 operations. 
3.12.5.  Coordinate with USSF Space Training and Readiness Command on issues 
affecting both services as required 
3.13.  The LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education will: 
3.13.1.  Confer with commanders and senior staff members to collect lessons learned and 
isolate major problems associated with management and operations.  Air Force Lessons 
Learned Offices will make recommendations for C2 improvements across the doctrine, 
organizations, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, and facilities-policy 
that inform leadership decisions. 
3.13.2.  Develop Service doctrine and ensure content aligns with and informs joint doctrine 
of the airpower capabilities available to joint force commanders. 
3.14.  The National Guard Bureau and Air Force Reserve Command will ensure Air Reserve 
Component augmentation units are organized, trained, and equipped to support both aligned 
Air Force Component and worldwide deployment requirements. 
3.15.  Air Force Materiel Command will be responsible for weapon systems’ lifecycle 
management, sustainment and logistics, as well as installation and mission support functions. 
3.16.  The USSF, Air Force Special Operations Command, Air Force Global Strike Command, 
Air Force Cyber Command, and Air Mobility Command will coordinate with ACC to ensure 
AOC and operations center weapon system program requirements, documentation, 
sustainment, modernization efforts, and equipment fielding plans incorporate information 
exchange and interoperability needs with each of the respective tailored AOC and operations 
center C2 systems. 
 
 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
11 
3.17.  The SF/COO will: 
3.17.1.  Serve as the USSF lead for the DAF C2 enterprise ensuring the joint force has the 
ability to anticipate, detect and respond to threats or challenge adversaries in the space 
domain in support of joint operations. 
3.17.2.  As directed by the Chief of Space Operations, lead engagements to update space 
training in Combatant Command and joint task force training courses to increase awareness 
of space warfighting capabilities as both independent and integrated operational options. 
3.17.3.  Coordinate with counterparts on all nuclear command, control and 
communications-related issues such as sustainment of current systems, development of 
future capabilities, and development of planning guidance for upcoming budget cycles. 
3.17.4.  Establish policies to organize, train, and equip a USSF operations centers to 
include the  USSF Watch to receive, process, and disseminate information needed to 
comprehensively understand the current operational environment and posture of USSF 
operational capabilities across space power disciplines. 
3.17.5.  Develop and provide, in conjunction with SF/S5, systems that enable strategic 
communications and data transfer between warfighters, operations centers, and agencies of 
the intelligence community. 
3.17.6.  Develop plans for the long-term presentation of USSF forces to combatant 
commands to include necessary C2 node, as required. 
3.17.7.  Coordinate with the AF/A3 on issues affecting both services as required. 
 
JOHN P. ROTH 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
12 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 
March 2020 
DoD Directive 3700.01, DoD Command and Control Enabling Capabilities, 22 October 2014 
DAFPD 17-1, Information Dominance Governance and Management, 12 April 2016 
Joint Publication 3-33, Joint Task Force Headquarters, 31 January 2018 
Public Law 115–232, John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, 
13 August 2018 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Form 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
A3—Operations, Plans and Requirements 
ABMS—Advanced battle management family of systems 
ACC—Air Combat Command 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Operations 
AF/A5—Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Strategy, Integration and Requirements 
AOC—Air operations center 
C2—Command and control 
C/JFACC—Combined/Joint Air Component Commander 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
JADC2—Joint all-domain command and control 
JADO—Joint all-domain operations 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
SF/COO—USSF Chief Operations Officer 
SF/CSRO—USSF Chief Strategy and Resources Officer 
TACS—Theater air control system 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
13 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
Terms 
Agile—The ability to rapidly deploy, employ, sustain, and redeploy capabilities in geographically 
separated and environmentally diverse regions. 
Airspace Control Authority—The commander designated to assume overall responsibility for 
the operation of the airspace control system in the airspace control area. 
Allied Forces—The relationship that results from a formal agreement (e.g., treaty) between two 
or more nations for broad, longterm objectives that further the common interests of the members.  
See also coalition. 
Area Air Defense Commander—The component commander with the preponderance of air 
defense capability and the required command, control, and communications capabilities who is 
assigned by the joint force commander to plan and execute integrated air defense operations.  Also 
called AADC. 
Coalition—An arrangement between two or more nations for common action.  See also allied 
forces. 
Combined/Joint Force Air Component Commander (C/JFACC)—The commander within a 
unified command, subordinate unified command, or joint task force responsible to the establishing 
commander for recommending the proper employment of assigned, attached, and/or made 
available for tasking air forces; planning and coordinating air operations; or accomplishing such 
operational missions as may be assigned. 
Command and Control (C2)—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated 
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission.  Also called 
C2. 
Commander, Air Force Forces—The single Air Force commander of an Air Force Service 
component assigned or attached to a Joint Force Commander at the unified combatant command, 
sub-unified combatant command, or joint task force level. 
Continuity of Operations—The degree or state of being continuous in the conduct of functions, 
tasks, or duties necessary to accomplish a military action or mission in carrying out the national 
military strategy. 
Decentralized Execution—Delegation of execution authority to subordinate commanders. 
Distributed Operations—When independent or interdependent forces, some of which may be 
outside the joint operations area, participate in the operational planning and/or decision making to 
accomplish missions and objectives for commanders. 
Flexible—Capable of adjusting to changing requirements/conditions while taking advantage of 
opportunities and maximizing efficiencies. 
Integration—The arrangement of military forces and actions to create a force that operates by 
engaging as a whole. 
14 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
Interoperability—1.  The ability to act together coherently, effectively, and efficiently to achieve 
tactical, operational, and strategic objectives. 2.  The condition achieved among communications-
electronics systems or items of communications-electronics equipment when information or 
services can be exchanged directly and satisfactorily between them and/or their users. 
Joint All-Domain Operations (JADO)—The evolving warfighting concept that synchronizes 
major weapons systems and crucial data sources with revolutionary simplicity.  JADO allows 
commanders to quickly predict adversaries’ next moves and disrupt and overwhelm them with a 
new level of precision. 
Major Command (MAJCOM)—A major subdivision of the USAF that is assigned a major part 
of the USAF mission.  A MAJCOM is directly subordinate to Headquarters US Air Force.  Most 
MAJCOMs have the word Command as part of their designation; MAJCOM headquarters are 
management headquarters and thus have the full range of functional staff. 
Non-governmental organization—A private, self-governing, not-for-profit organization 
dedicated to alleviating human suffering; and/or promoting education, health care, economic 
development, environmental protection, human rights, and conflict resolution; and/or encouraging 
the establishment of democratic institutions and civil society. 
Personnel—Those individuals required in either a military or civilian capacity to accomplish the 
assigned mission. 
Policy—Guidance that is directive or instructive, stating what is to be accomplished.  It reflects a 
conscious choice to pursue certain avenues, and not others.  Policies may change due to changes 
in national leadership, political considerations, or for fiscal reasons.  At the national level, policy 
may be expressed in such broad vehicles such as the National Security Strategy.  Within military 
operations, policy may be expressed not only in terms of objectives, but also in rules of 
engagement—what we may or may not strike, or under what circumstances we may strike 
particular targets. 
Range of Military Operations—Military operations that vary in scope, purpose, and conflict 
intensity across a range that extends from military engagement, security cooperation, and 
deterrence activities to crisis response and limited contingency operations and, if necessary, to 
major operations and campaigns. 
Reach back—The process of obtaining products, services and applications or forces, equipment, 
or materiel from USAF organizations that are not forward deployed. 
Shadow Network—Multi-domain military networks that serve as a development and operations 
environment that will allow us to experiment and rapidly design, develop and deploy enterprise-
wide C2 technology. 
Space Coordinating Authority—A commander responsible for coordinating joint space 
operations and integrating space capabilities in the operational area. 
Subordinate Unified (Sub-Unified) Command—A command established by commanders of 
unified commands, when so authorized by the Secretary of Defense through the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, to conduct operations on a continuing basis in accordance with the criteria 
set forth for unified commands. 
DAFPD13-1  21 APRIL 2021 
15 
Support—1.  The action of a force that aids, protects, complements, or sustains another force in 
accordance with a directive requiring such action.  2.  A unit that helps another unit in battle.  3.  
An element of a command that assists, protects, or supplies other forces in combat. 
Unity of Effort—Coordination and cooperation toward common objectives, even if the 
participants are not necessarily part of the same command or organization— the product of 
successful unified action. 
 
