BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-2 
20 MAY 2021 
Operations 
READINESS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3TR and SF/COOA 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-2,  
                        6 November 2012 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lt Gen Joseph T. Guastella);  
Senior Coordinator  
(Lt Gen B. Chance Saltzman) 
Pages: 4 
 
 
This Department of the Air Force Policy Directive (DAFPD) implements Department of Defense 
Directive 7730.65, Department of Defense Readiness Reporting System; Department of Defense 
Directive 3020.26, DoD Continuity Policy; and Department of Defense Instruction 7730.66, 
Guidance for the Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS).  This publication applies to all 
civilian and Regular Air Force personnel and all civilian and Regular Space Force personnel, 
members of the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard.  Refer recommended changes and 
conflicts between this and other publications to Headquarters Air Force Readiness or Headquarters 
Space Force Readiness, as appropriate, on an Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change 
of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of 
command.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which 
is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This directive has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed.  Major changes 
include the removal of sections on Department of the Air Force Command and Control 
Architecture, base and launch operability, managing resources, and implementation of CJCSI 
3500.01H, Joint Training Policy for the Armed Forces of the United States. 
2 
DAFPD10-2  20 MAY 2021 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  Department of the Air Force readiness, defined as the ability of United States Air Force 
and United States Space Force units to deliver their designed capabilities without unacceptable 
delay, is essential for the successful accomplishment of our mission.  This directive establishes 
policy for the Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and Space Force 
units preparing personnel and equipment to achieve, maintain, and sustain required readiness 
levels to meet taskings across the full range of military operations. 
1.2.  In accordance with Title 10 United States Code Section 117 requirements, the Secretary 
of Defense established the Defense Readiness Reporting System as the single readiness 
reporting system for the Department of Defense.  As such, the Defense Readiness Reporting 
System is used by the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
Combatant Commands, Services, and Combat Support Agencies. 
2.  Policy.  It is Department of the Air Force policy that: 
2.1.  The United States Air Force and the United States Space Force will continually assess 
readiness based on criteria established by the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and Chief 
of Space Operations, United States Space Force. 
2.2.  The United States Air Force and the United States Space Force will use Defense 
Readiness Reporting System information in assessing readiness, determining budgetary 
allocation and management action impacts on unit level readiness, answering congressional 
inquiries, analyzing readiness trends, and supporting readiness decisions. 
2.3.  The United States Air Force and the United States Space Force units will report resource 
and capability readiness.  Resource readiness is a commander’s objective assessment of the 
unit’s ability to execute the full spectrum mission for which the unit is organized.  Capability 
readiness is a commander’s subjective assessment of the unit’s ability to accomplish tasks 
based on the mission for which the unit is organized. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3): 
3.1.1.  Provides policy oversight and advocacy for Air Force readiness and ensures 
implementation of policy.  In addition, AF/A3 identifies those portions of the Department 
of Defense readiness policy that require Air Force, Major Command, or unit 
implementation. 
3.1.2.  Provides Air Force readiness inputs to the semi-annual Joint Force Readiness 
Review and the Semiannual Readiness Report to Congress. 
3.2.  Chief Operations Officer (SF/COO): 
3.2.1.  Provides policy oversight and advocacy of Space Force readiness and ensures 
implementation of policy.  In addition, SF/COO identifies those portions of the DoD 
readiness policy that require Space Force Field Commands, Garrisons, and Deltas 
implementation. 
 
 
DAFPD10-2  20 MAY 2021 
3 
 
3.2.2.  Provides Space Force readiness inputs to the semi-annual Joint Force Readiness 
Review and the Semiannual Readiness Report to Congress. 
 
JOHN P. ROTH 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
4 
DAFPD10-2  20 MAY 2021 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Title 10 USC §117 
Department of Defense Directive 7730.65, DoD Readiness Reporting System (DRRS), 11 May 
2015 
Department of Defense Directive 3020.26, DoD Continuity Policy, 14 February 2018 
Department of Defense Instruction 7730.66, Guidance for the Defense Readiness Reporting 
System (DRRS), 31 May 2018 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Terms  
None 
 
