BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-25 
6 FEBRUARY 2024 
Operations 
EMERGENCY  
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no restrictions on the release of this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A4C 
 
 
Certified by: AF/A4  
(Lieutenant General Tom D. Miller) 
USSF Senior Coordinator  
(Lieutenant General Deanna M. Burt)
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-25, 23 April 2019 
Pages: 18 
 
 
This Department of Air Force (DAF) Policy Directive (DAFPD) implements Presidential Policy 
Directive (PPD)-8; National Preparedness; Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-5, 
Management of Domestic Incidents; National Response Framework, Fourth Edition; National 
Disaster Recovery Framework, Second Edition, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 
6055.17, DoD Emergency Management (EM) Program; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 
3020.44, Defense Crisis Management; DoDI 3020.52, DoD Installation Chemical, Biological, 
Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Preparedness Standards; DoDD 
3150.08, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon and Radiological Material Incidents; and DoDI 
2000.21, DoD Support to International Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) 
Incidents. This directive is consistent with and supports DoDD 3020.40, Mission Assurance (MA); 
DoDD 5160.05E, Roles and Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological Defense 
Program (CBDP); DoDD 2060.02, DoD Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) 
Policy; DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Survivability Policy; 
DoDI 3020.45, Mission Assurance Construct; DoDI 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Program; 
DoDI O-2000.16, Volume 1, DoD Antiterrorism Program Implementation:  DoD Antiterrorism 
Standards; DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA); DoDI 3025.22, The Use 
of the National Guard for Defense Support of Civil Authorities; DoDD 3020.26, DoD Continuity 
Policy; DoDD 5100.46, Foreign Disaster Relief (FDR); DoDI 6200.03, Public Health Emergency 
Management  (PHEM)Within the DoD; DAFPD 10-2, Readiness; DAFPD 10-8, Defense Support 
of Civil Authorities (DSCA); Air Force (AF) Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-26, Countering Weapons 
2 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
of Mass Destruction; Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-38, Deputy Chief of 
Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection; and AFPD 10-24, Mission Assurance. This 
publication establishes the DAF EM Program and its responsibilities, procedures, and standards 
for organizing, training, and equipping forces to prevent, protect, prepare for, mitigate, respond to, 
and recover from all-hazards threats in order to maintain, sustain, and when necessary, restore full-
spectrum mission capability. The DAF EM Program focuses on maintaining and restoring full-
spectrum readiness and mission capability as a way of assuring mission continuation and 
resiliency. 
This publication applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air 
Force, U.S. Space Force (USSF), the Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. Refer 
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility 
using the DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 
from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure all records generated 
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere to AF Instruction (AFI) 33-322, 
Records Management and Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with 
(IAW) the AF Records Disposition Schedule, which is located in the AF Records Information 
Management System. This DAFPD may not be supplemented. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been substantially revised and needs to be completely reviewed. This revision 
(1) re-designates this AFPD as DAFPD 10-25, Emergency Management Program; (2) establishes 
a systematic capabilities-based all-hazard/threat effects to align with the DAF EM Program; (3) 
supports the Secretary of the Air Force operational imperatives; (4) supports multiple Deputy Chief 
of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) Basing and Logistics Enterprise 
Strategy priorities and objectives; (5) aligns language with updates from PPD-8, HSPD-5, the 
National Incident Management System, and DoDI 6055.17 requirements consistent with EM 
mission areas and common core capabilities; (6) establishes a strategic planning and risk 
management approach regarding adversarial nation-state CBRNE and catastrophic natural disaster 
risk to enhance installation planning, risk management, and DAF-wide organize, train, equip, and 
exercise. 
 
1. 
Background. .............................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
Overview. .................................................................................................................  
3 
3. 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) Emergency Management (EM) Program .......  
4 
4. 
Roles and Responsibilities. ......................................................................................  
5 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
11 
 
 
 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
3 
1.  Background. 
1.1.  The President of the United States laid out an enduring vision in the 2022 National 
Security Strategy for a free, open, secure, and prosperous world. The National Security 
Strategy outlines that, as part of defending the Homeland, we must prevent CBRN attacks, 
protect our critical infrastructure, and deter, disrupt, and defeat potential threats before they 
reach the United States. We must take deliberate steps to respond quickly to meet the needs of 
the American people in the event of natural disaster or attack on our Homeland. We must also 
build a culture of preparedness and resilience across our governmental functions, critical 
infrastructure, and economic and political systems. 
1.2.  China and Russia, the rogue states of North Korea and Iran, and transnational threat 
organizations, particularly jihadist terrorist groups, actively compete against the United States 
and our allies and partners. State and non-state actors place the safety of the American people 
at risk by exploiting vulnerabilities across the land, air, maritime, space, and cyberspace 
domains. Adversaries constantly evolve their methods to threaten the United States and our 
citizens. We must be agile and adaptable. The danger from hostile state and non-state actors 
who are trying to acquire and employ CBRN weapons is increasing. In the end, we must out-
compete China and constrain a dangerous and unpredictable Russia. 
1.3.  The United States must retain a ready force that is capable of protecting the homeland 
while defending U.S. interests. This requires a resilient forward posture and agile global 
mobility forces. As a part of the Joint Force, the DAF must remain capable of doing its part in 
deterring and defeating the full range of threats to the United States. The DAF must develop 
new operational concepts and capabilities to win without assured dominance in air, maritime, 
land, space, and cyberspace domains, including against those operating below the level of 
conventional military conflict. 
2.  Overview. 
2.1.  The primary mission of the DAF EM Program is to prevent, protect, prepare for, mitigate, 
respond to, and recover from all threats/hazards affecting the DAF installations worldwide. 
2.2.  The ancillary mission of the DAF EM Program is to support homeland defense, civil and 
host nation authorities, AT programs, and the Countering WMD (CWMD) enterprise. 
2.3.  The establishment and maintenance of an interoperable, comprehensive, all-hazards DAF 
EM Program will ensure full-spectrum readiness and sustain Mission Assurance (MA). MA 
and resiliency of DAF personnel and resources are essential to enabling Airmen and Guardians 
to survive and operate under all conditions. Provides the ability to perform Integrated Base 
Response and Recovery (IBRR) actions to address pacing challenges regarding nation-state 
adversary hazards and threats. IBRR is defined as the restoration of mission (operational and 
support) capabilities after an incident, which caused degradation of the mission. 
2.4.  DAF emergency managers (Air Force Specialty Code [AFSC] 3E9XX) manage non-
medical defense and adversarial WMD response IAW the roles and responsibilities outlined in 
the DAF EM Program. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
2.5.  The DAF supports federal emergency preparedness and incident management programs 
consistent with military operations. DAF EM policies, guidance, and procedures focus on 
operational requirements and incorporate them according to federal statutes, DoD guidance, 
host nation agreements, and international law including any applicable treaties. DAF 
organizations coordinate EM requirements and capabilities with local, state, federal, and tribal 
governments, other U.S. and foreign military organizations, industry and local/regional 
commercial entities, combatant commanders, chiefs of mission, host nation partners, and 
international and non-governmental organizations. These DAF coordination efforts utilize an 
all-hazards approach, in conjunction with a risk management process as outlined in DoDI 
6055.17. 
2.6.  The DAF will integrate intelligence, law enforcement, and EM operations to ensure 
Airmen and Guardians have the right information and capabilities to respond to adversarial 
threats from state and non-state actors. 
3.  Department of the Air Force (DAF) Emergency Management (EM) Program  Policy. It is 
the DAF’s policy to establish and maintain a DAF EM Program that utilizes a systematic 
capabilities-based all-hazard/threat approach as a means of sustaining MA, enhancing maintenance 
operations, and restoring readiness. The DAF EM Program will: 
3.1.  Plan, program, and budget for EM, CBRN defense, and CBRN response requirements 
regarding training, exercises, evaluations, manpower, and equipment IAW DoDI 6055.17 and 
DoDD 5160.05E. 
3.2.  Incorporate EM concepts into appropriate DAF and Joint concepts of operations, agile 
combat concepts of support/employment by training, education, certification, and credentialing 
courses. 
3.3.  Integrate measurable operational standards for determining the requirements for 
equipment, training, manpower, ancillary resources, and installation performance criteria to 
conduct and sustain EM for operations. 
3.4.  Develop reporting and notification capabilities satisfying applicable federal, DoD, Joint 
Staff, Combatant Commands, host nation and DAF requirements outlined in AF Manual 
(AFMAN) 10-206, Operational Reporting (OPREP). 
3.5.  Align with PPD-8, HSPD-5, DoDI 6055.17, and as appropriate, implement the National 
Planning Frameworks and applicable federal and DoD guidance for all-hazards incident 
management. 
3.6.  The DAF will use the National Incident Management System to conduct incident 
management, encompassing the following phases: prevention, protection, mitigation, 
response, and recovery. 
3.7.  Conduct IBRR exercises and evaluations for recovery, restoration, and sustainment of 
mission capability are included in Inspector General requirements and the commander’s 
inspection program. 
 
 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
5 
4.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
4.1.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1).  The AF/A1 
will provide strategy, guidance, and oversight to MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, AF Personnel 
Center, and installation force support units and activities for the DAF EM Program IAW DoDI 
6055.17. AF/A1 will: 
4.1.1.  Provide incident response guidance to recover human remains and associated 
personal items. 
4.1.2.  Serve as the focal point for victim and family assistance services for all EM 
activities. 
4.1.3.  Provide guidance for installation shelter-stocking activities. 
4.1.4.  Provide guidance on maintaining Total Force accountability of mission essential 
personnel during EM and contingency operations. 
4.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6).  AF/A2/6 will: 
4.2.1.  Advise DAF leadership on threats to DAF installations and operations. 
4.2.2.  Provide intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance support and utilize 
capabilities to collect, analyze, produce, and disseminate all-source intelligence 
information. Intelligence information is critical to prevent, protect, prepare for, respond to, 
recover from, and mitigate the direct and indirect consequences of adversary attacks or 
terrorist incidents. 
4.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3).  AF/A3 will: 
4.3.1.  Oversee the development, coordination, and execution of homeland defense and 
DSCA policy and operational standards as outlined in DAFPD 10-8. 
4.3.2.  Continually assess and synchronize DAF current operations situational awareness 
information in all-hazards threat environments. Training, exercise evaluation, and 
inspection assessments are critical and will be used for readiness assessments. 
4.3.3.  The Director of Current Operations (AF/A3O). AF/A3O will coordinate and 
integrate DAF MA guidance, procedures, and capabilities with the DAF EM Program as 
outlined in AFPD 10-24. 
4.4.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4).  The 
AF/A4 supports Secretary of the AF operational imperatives to operationally optimize 
information, generate resilient installations, and account for combat support maneuver aspects 
needed to protect forces from all-hazards/threat effects and continue mission operations. 
4.4.1.  AF/A4C. Under the authority, direction, and control of the AF/A4, AF/A4C will 
serve as the office of primary responsibility for the development and implementation of the 
DAF EM Program and CBRN Defense Program. AF/A4C will: 
4.4.1.1.  Develop and synchronize EM and CBRN Defense policy with DAF, Joint 
Staff, and DoD guidance and governance. 
6 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
4.4.1.2.  Develop policy and provide guidance for organization and strategic direction 
of the DAF EM Program: education and training, current and future DAF EM 
technologies, capabilities, and equipment, and whole-of-community shared mission 
areas. 
4.4.1.3.  Ensure DAF EM Program integration with homeland defense, civil support, 
MA, integrated defense, critical infrastructure, continuity of operations, AT, 
emergency preparedness, and support to CBRN accidents and incidents. 
4.4.1.4.  Plan, program, and budget for DAF EM and CBRN requirements, 
management support, resources, and staff to implement and assess compliance of DAF 
EM and CBRN programs effectively at all organizational levels. 
4.4.1.5.  Oversee the planning, programming, budgeting, and execution of sustainment 
resources. These activities are part of the effort to organize, train, and equip all forces 
to conduct EM Program actions. Actions include non-medical CBRN defense and 
CBRN response operations and activities. These operations and activities should be 
done consistently with defense acquisition processes, Joint Capabilities Integration and 
Development System, and the Joint Staff/J-8 Joint Requirements Office for CBRN 
defense in support of the DAF EM and CBRN Programs. 
4.4.1.6.  Support the establishment of and maintain defense crisis management 
capabilities in support of DoD and component defense crisis management 
requirements. 
4.4.1.7.  Provide designated DAF representation to the Nuclear Weapons Accident 
Incident Response Subcommittee and validate Defense Threat Reduction Agency led 
DAF exercise and training requirements. 
4.4.1.8.  Provide designated DAF representation to the Nuclear Weapons Accident 
Incident Exercise program, which is a full-scale exercise of DoD CBRN response 
capabilities to respond to a U.S. nuclear weapon incident IAW DoDI 3150.10, DoD 
Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon Incidents. 
4.4.1.9.  Organize, train, and equip response task forces to support necessary actions in 
response to a U.S. nuclear weapon incident that occurs while in the DAF’s custody or 
when directed by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) through MAJCOMs with a 
Response Task Force and/or Initial Response Force mission. 
4.4.1.10.  Review joint mission-essential task lists and develop DAF-specific mission 
essential task requirements for the nuclear and radiological incident response forces. 
4.4.1.11.  Develop DAF EM exercise requirements and evaluation criteria for 
inspection guidance. 
4.4.1.12.  Develop and provide guidance for DAF EM ancillary training to military and 
civilian personnel, dependents, and contractors. 
4.4.1.13.  Represent the DAF in Joint, DoD, and external EM governance activities. 
 
 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
7 
4.4.1.14.  Establish a DAF Emergency Management Working Group Charter, which 
shall primarily support four corporate governance structures: DoD EM Steering Group; 
DAF Security Enterprise and MA; Agile Combat Support; and the AF Civil Engineer 
Board. Emergency Management Working Groups will also guide program 
implementation across the DAF at the headquarters, MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs, and 
installations. 
4.4.1.15.  Provide designated DAF representation to the DoD Public Safety 
Communications Working Group Executive Committee, chaired by the DoD Deputy 
Chief Information Officer for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers 
and Information Infrastructure Capabilities. 
4.4.1.16.  Provide functional EM expertise in support of DAF EM Program organize, 
train, and equip requirements. 
4.4.1.17.  Provide functional expertise to support the development of DoD, Joint 
Service, international standards, and doctrine to include North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Standardization Agreements for EM, CBRN defense, and CBRN 
response. 
4.4.1.18.  Oversee execution of EM Program in host nations IAW the status of forces 
agreements, international law, treaties, Department of State and combatant commander 
guidance, and applicable host nation standards. Ensure installation EM and CBRN 
Programs in host nations have clear guidance regarding how DAF EM and CBRN 
Program capabilities could support host nation preparedness, mitigation, response, and 
recovery efforts. 
4.4.1.19.  Establish a strategic planning and risk management approach regarding 
WMD and catastrophic natural disaster risks to enhance installation risk management 
and planning to ensure they are organized, trained, and equipped to meet AF Force 
Generation requirements. 
4.4.1.20.  Specify a systematic DAF EM planning and integrated risk management 
cycle process. 
4.4.1.21.  Establish the ability to generate capability-based hierarchical status 
information for units and installation EM across the DAF and culminate a holistic DAF 
EM Program Stakeholder Preparedness Review to guide and enable installations, 
MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs, and DAF program information adaptation. 
4.4.2.  The Director of Logistics (AF/A4L). Under the authority, direction, and control of 
the AF/A4, AF/A4L will provide subject matter expertise from all applicable logistics 
functional areas in the development of EM policy, guidance, and oversight. 
4.4.3.  The Director of Resource Integration (AF/A4P). Under the authority, direction, and 
control of the AF/A4, AF/A4P will provide guidance for resource and information 
integration across the DAF EM program. 
4.4.4.  The Director of Security Forces (AF/A4S). Under the authority, direction, and 
control of the AF/A4, AF/A4S will provide guidance and synchronize force protection, 
base defense, and AT initiatives with the DAF EM Program. 
8 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
4.5.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7).  AF/A5/7 will ensure DAF EM 
Program capabilities, equities, doctrine, policy, guidance, and instructions are considered in 
the development of operational strategies, concepts, and requirements (i.e., capabilities-based 
planning, capability requirements development, strategic planning direction, capability and 
modification prioritization, defense planning scenarios, and experimentation). 
4.6.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8).  AF/A8 will ensure DAF EM 
Program capabilities, equities, doctrine, policies, guidance, and instructions are considered in 
overarching planning and programming efforts (i.e., war plans, institutionalized long-range 
strategic planning, modernization planning processes, future concepts, strategic assessments, 
and DAF program objective submissions). 
4.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
(AF/A10).  AF/A10 will: 
4.7.1.  Coordinate AF nuclear surety policy that supports capability requirements and 
response to nuclear weapons incidents and accidents IAW AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear 
Mission. 
4.7.2.  Oversee the CWMD enterprise IAW with AFPD 10-26 and synchronize activities 
with the DAF EM Program. 
4.8.  Chief of Safety (AF/SE).  AF/SE will provide guidance, direction, and oversight of all 
matters pertaining to nuclear surety of all nuclear weapons and weapon systems, to include 
nuclear surety standards, guidance, and training IAW AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and 
Systems Surety. 
4.9.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG).  AF/SG will: 
4.9.1.  Develop policies to address medical aspects of the DAF EM Program. 
4.9.2.  AF/SG, in coordination with the Defense Health Agency, will incorporate EM 
considerations into medical plans, programs, requirements, and budgets. 
4.9.3.  Provide medical expertise to support the development of DAF policies and 
procedures and associated medical response capabilities in support of the DAF EM 
Program. 
4.9.4.  Provide functional expertise to include a Medical Emergency Manager to integrate 
response capabilities and oversee medical aspects of the DAF EM and CBRN Program. 
4.9.5.  Provide public health and medical consultation for all public health, veterinary, and 
medical issues pertaining to the EM program, per DoDI 6055.17 and DoDI 6200.03. 
4.9.6.  Coordinate with the Chief of Safety (AF/SE) to develop and issue radiological 
health matters guidance IAW DoDI 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection 
Program. 
4.9.7.  Organize, train, and equip medical forces to support the DAF EM Program. Support 
will include health risk assessment activities and patient treatment as outlined in AFPD 48-
1, Aerospace & Operational Medicine Enterprise (AOME). 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
9 
4.9.7.1.  Coordinate with AF/A4L, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center 
(AFIMSC), and Defense Logistics Agency to plan for adequate procurement, storage, 
and transportation/distribution for CBRN medical countermeasures. 
4.10.  The Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN).  SAF/CN will plan, program, and budget 
for an operationally resilient, reliable, interoperable, secure communications infrastructure and 
support AF/A4C for Joint All Domain Command and Control. 
4.11.  The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety, and 
Infrastructure (SAF/IEE).  The SAF/IEE will provide strategic direction, policy, and 
oversight for DAF built and natural infrastructure, safety, occupational health, radiation safety, 
and radioactive materials management interest. 
4.12.  Director for Office of Studies and Analysis (SAF/SA).  SAF/SA will provide analysis 
support, as required, for DAF plans, programs, operational concepts, education, training, and 
exercises associated with the DAF EM Program. 
4.13.  Headquarters Space Force (USSF).  USSF will develop plans, policy implementation 
guidance, procedures, and budgets for resources to conduct the DAF EM Program consistent 
with mission and the all-hazard threat environment IAW Program Action Directive (PAD) 20-
01, Establishment of the United States Space Force (USSF) and the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ). 
4.14.  Headquarters, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC).  AFMC will develop 
direction for DAF EM Program integration and execution through installation and mission 
support advocacy, education, training, equipment, and resourcing IAW DoDI 6055.17 and 
AFMC Mission Directive 4-422, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center 
(AFIMSC). 
4.14.1.  AFIMSC. Under the authority, direction, and control of AFMC, AFIMSC will 
provide DAF EM Program integration, execution, and support. AFIMSC will: 
4.14.1.1.  Manage execution of DAF EM and CBRN Program budgets, implement 
funding strategies, and support for program objective memorandum development and 
ensure program execution. 
4.14.1.2.  Include cross-functional reachback support for DAF EM and CBRN Program 
requirements and capabilities and monitor/evaluate DAF EM Program health 
indicators, trend analysis, Defense Readiness Reporting System shortfalls and 
limitations for advocation of EM deficiencies. 
4.14.1.3.  Develop strategic direction for integration of DAF Emergency Management 
information systems requirements and enterprise information technology solution. 
4.14.1.4.  Oversee integrated development of EM-related tactics, techniques, and 
procedures (TTPs), concept of operations (CONOPS), and concept of employment 
(CONEMPs). AFIMSC will ensure the development of the DAF EM Program, CBRN 
Defense, consequence management doctrine, policy guidance, instructions, and 
manuals. 
4.14.1.5.  Develop and maintain DAF EM and CBRN education and training courses. 
10 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
4.14.1.6.  AFIMSC, in coordination with the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, 
(AFLCMC), will continually modernize DAF EM and CBRN planning, training, and 
equipment capabilities. 
4.14.1.7.  Develop and execute DAF EM Program studies and analysis and provide 
expertise in support of policies, procedures, CONOPS, equipment, and training 
program development DAF-wide. 
4.14.1.8.  Develop products and materials for the installation EM and CBRN Program 
to implement as part of the DAF EM Program. 
4.14.1.9.  Oversee the development of strategic direction, to ensure installations 
identify contract support requirements and work with local contracting offices to 
develop suitable commercial sourcing solutions in anticipation of requirements to 
respond/recover from an emergency/contingency operation. 
4.14.1.10.  Oversee the development of strategic direction to ensure installation 
commanders identify to the contracting office, mission essential functions and must be 
maintained during emergency/contingency operations. 
4.14.1.11.  Ensure contracting offices and contracts are postured and ready to respond 
to an emergency/contingency. 
4.14.2.  Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC). The AFLCMC will support 
the CBRN portfolio as the material developer for CBRN modernization, equipment, 
protection testing, DAF Emergency Management information systems capabilities, etc., 
across the DAF. 
4.15.  Major 
Commands 
(MAJCOMs) 
and 
Field 
Commands 
(FLDCOMs).  MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs will provide oversight and guidance for the DAF EM 
and CBRN Programs within their respective MAJCOM/FLDCOM IAW DoDI 6055.17 and 
this publication. MAJCOMs/FLDCOMs will: 
4.15.1.  Develop plans, policy implementation guidance, procedures, and budgets for 
resources to conduct the DAF EM and CBRN Programs consistent with mission and the 
all-hazard threat environment. 
4.15.2.  Integrate EM and CBRN training and exercise requirements in relevant operational 
plans and orders to validate consistency with the established guidance. 
4.15.3.  Develop guidance and procedures for installations to complete all-hazard threat 
assessments and MA assessments IAW DoDI 3020.45, DoDI 6055.17, and DoDI O-
2000.16, Volume 1. 
 
FRANK KENDALL III 
Secretary of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
11 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 2060.02, DoD Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy, 27 January 2017 
DoDD 3020.26, DoD Continuity Policy, 14 February 2018 
DoDD 3020.40, Mission Assurance (MA), 29 November 2016 
DoDD 3020.44, Defense Crisis Management, 4 June 2007 
DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 29 December 2010 
DoDD 3150.08, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon and Radiological Material Incidents, 27 
November 2020 
DoDD 5100.46, Foreign Disaster Relief (FDR), 6 July 2012 
DoDD 5160.05E, Roles and Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program(CBDP), 8 September 2017 
DoDI 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Program, 1 March 2012 
DoDI O-2000.16, Volume 1, DoD Antiterrorism Program Implementation: DoD Antiterrorism 
Standards, 17 November 2016 
DoDI O-2000.16V1_DAFI31-245-O, Antiterrorism Program Implementation, 1 June 2023 
DoDI 2000.21, DoD Support to International Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
(CBRN) Incidents, 5 April 2016 
DoDI 3020.45, Mission Assurance Construct, 14 August 2018 
DoDI 3020.52, DoD Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield 
Explosive (CBRNE) Preparedness Standards, 18 May 2012 
DoDI 3025.22, The Use of the National Guard for Defense Support of Civil Authorities, 26 July 
2013 
DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Survivability Policy, 8 
April 2015 
DoDI 3150.10, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon Incidents, 2 July 2010 
DoDI 6055.08, Occupational Ionizing Radiation Protection Program, 9 April 2021 
DoDI 6055.17, DoD Emergency Management (EM) Program, 13 February 2017 
DoDI 6200.03, Public Health Emergency Management (PHEM) Within the DoD, 28 March 2019 
DoDI 8130.01, Installation Geospatial Information and Services (IGI&S), 9 April 2015 
DAFPD 10-2, Readiness, 20 May 2021 
DAFPD 10-8, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 13 September 2022 
AFPD 10-24, Mission Assurance, 5 November 2019 
12 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
AFPD 10-26, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, 20 August 2019 
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Mission, 17 July 2018 
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace & Operational Medicine Enterprise (AOME), 7 June 2019 
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 24 October 2019 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 28 July 2021 
AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting (OPREP), 18 June 2018 
AFMC Mission Directive 4-422, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center (AFIMSC), 
24 July 2020 
HAFMD 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection, 21 June 2021 
PAD 20-01, Establishment of the United States Space Force (USSF) and the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ), 29 March 
2022 
PPD-8, National Preparedness, 30 March 2011 
HSPD-5, Management of Domestic Incidents, 28 February 2003 
National Response Framework, Fourth Edition, October 2019 
National Disaster Recovery Framework, Second Edition, June 2016 
National Security Strategy, 2022 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF—Air Force 
AFIMSC—Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center 
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
AT—Antiterrorism 
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive 
CONOPS—Concept of Operations 
CWMD—Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
13 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Program Directive 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Authorities 
EM—Emergency Management 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
HSPD—Homeland Security Presidential Directive 
IAW—In Accordance With 
IBRR—Integrated Base Response and Recovery 
JP—Joint Publication 
MA—Mission Assurance 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
PAD—Program Action Directive 
PPD—Presidential Policy Directive 
SecDef—Secretary of Defense 
U.S.—United States 
USSF—United States Space Force 
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Office Symbols 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A3O—Director of Current Operations 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection 
AF/A4C—Director of Civil Engineers 
AF/A4L—Director of Logistics 
AF/A4P—Director of Resource Integration 
AF/A4S—Director of Security Forces 
AF/A5/7—Deputy Chief of Staff for Air Force Futures 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
14 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
AF/SE—Chief of Safety 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
SAF/CN—Chief Information Officer 
SAF/IEE—The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety, and 
Infrastructure (SAF/IEE) 
SAF/SA—Director for Office of Studies and Analysis 
Terms 
All-Hazards—A methodology to develop EM strategies for all different types of potential 
incidents. “All-Hazards” include any incident, natural or manmade, that warrants action to protect 
the life, property, health, and safety of military members, dependents, and civilians at risk, and 
minimize any disruptions of installation operations. 
Antiterrorism (AT)—Defensive measures used to reduce the vulnerability of individuals and 
property to terrorist acts, to include rapid containment by local military and civilian forces. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN)—Operations that include CBRN, 
either individually or in combination. Collectively known as WMD. Toxic industrial chemicals 
and toxic industrial materials are considered CBRN materials. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Defense—Measures taken to 
minimize or negate the vulnerabilities to, and/or effects of, a CBRN hazard or incident. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Environment—An operational 
environment that includes CBRN threats/hazards and their potential resulting effects. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Incident—Any occurrence, resulting 
from the use of CBRN weapons and devices; the emergence of secondary hazards arising from 
counterforce targeting; or the release of toxic industrial materials into the environment, involving 
the emergence of CBRN hazards. 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Response—CBRN response efforts 
minimize the effect of CBRN use to the joint force and other mission critical personnel. Actions 
to manage consequences support US and foreign civil authorities and their populations by 
responding to a CBRN incident and mitigating the hazards and effects of WMD use. The method 
of tactics, techniques, and procedures to save and sustain lives, stabilize the situation, protect 
property and the environment, and meet basic human needs during an intentional, naturally 
occurring, or accidental CBRN incident on DAF and host nation territories that support forces 
and/or supplies in which the DAF is located on, operates in, or transits through. 
Combatant Command—A unified or specified command with a broad continuing mission under 
a single commander established and so designated by the President of the United States, through 
the SecDef and with the advice and assistance of the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Countering-Weapons of Mass Destruction (CWMD)—Efforts against actors of concern to 
curtail the conceptualizing, development, possession, proliferation, use, and effects of WMD, 
related expertise, materials, technologies, and means of delivery. 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
15 
Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA)—Support provided by U.S. federal military 
forces, DoD civilians, DoD contract personnel, DoD component assets, and National Guard forces 
(when the SecDef, in coordination with the Governors of the affected states, elects and requests to 
use those forces in Title 32, U.S. Code, status) in response to requests for assistance from civil 
authorities for domestic emergencies, law enforcement support, and other domestic activities, or 
from qualifying entities for special events. 
Department of the Air Force (DAF) Emergency Management (EM) Program—The single, 
integrated DAF program to coordinate and organize efforts to prepare for, respond to, recover 
from, and mitigate incidents and emergencies using an all-hazards approach. 
Homeland Defense—The protection of U.S. sovereignty, territory, domestic population, and 
critical defense infrastructure against external threats and aggression or other threats as directed 
by the President of the United States. 
Homeland Security—A concerted national effort to prevent terrorist attacks within the United 
States; reduce America’s vulnerability to terrorism, major disasters, and other emergencies; and 
minimize the damage and recover from attacks, major disasters, and other emergencies that occur. 
Host Nation—A nation that receives the forces or supplies of allied nations, coalition partners, or 
North Atlantic Treaty Organizations to be located on, to operate in, or to transit through its 
territory. 
Incident—An occurrence or event, natural or human caused, that requires an emergency response 
to protect life or property. Incidents for example, can include major disasters, emergencies, 
terrorist attacks, terrorist threats, wildland and urban fires, floods, hazardous material spills, 
nuclear accidents, aircraft accidents, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms, war-
related disasters, public health and medical emergencies, and other occurrences requiring an 
emergency response. 
Initial Response Force—A tailored force dispatched from the closest military installation by the 
Joint Staff on behalf of the SecDef, immediately upon notification of a nuclear weapon incident or 
other nuclear or radiological material incident to establish security and mitigate immediate effects 
of the incident. 
Integrated Base Response and Recovery (IBRR)—Restoration of the mission (operational and 
support) capabilities after an incident, which caused degradation of the missions. Mission 
impacting incidents ranging from natural disasters to man-made accidents (CBRN, kinetic) and 
cyber-attack(s). Military, civilian, contractors, or a combined force may fill response and recovery 
team positions to support on-going recovery if damages exceed organic capability. 
Mission Assurance (MA)—A process to protect or ensure the continued function and resilience 
of capabilities and assets, including personnel, equipment, facilities, networks, information and 
information systems, infrastructure, and supply chains, critical to the execution of mission essential 
functions in any operating environment or condition. 
Mission Essential Functions—Those organizational activities that must be performed under all 
circumstances to achieve DoD component missions or responsibilities, the failure of which would 
significantly affect DoD’s ability to provide vital services or exercise authority, direction, and 
control. 
16 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
Mitigation—Activities designed to reduce or eliminate risks to persons or property or to lessen 
the actual or potential effects or consequences of an incident. Mitigation measures may be 
implemented prior to, during, or after an incident. Mitigation measures are often developed IAW 
lessons learned from prior incidents. Mitigation involves ongoing actions to reduce exposure to, 
probability of, or potential loss from hazards. Measures may include zoning and building codes, 
flood plain buyouts, and analysis of hazard-related data to determine where it is safe to build or 
locate temporary facilities. Mitigation can include efforts to educate governments, businesses, and 
the public on measures they can take to reduce loss and injury. 
National Incident Management System—A set of principles that provides a systematic, 
proactive approach guiding government agencies at all levels, nongovernmental organizations, and 
the private sector. This system is intended to work seamlessly to prevent, protect against, respond 
to, recover from, and mitigate the effects of domestic incidents. These efforts are planned and 
executed regardless of the cause, size, location, or complexity of the incident and are intended to 
reduce the loss of life or property and harm to the environment. 
National Planning Frameworks—As part of the National Preparedness System, guidance that 
describes how the whole community works together to achieve the National Preparedness Goal. 
There is one framework for each of the five preparedness mission areas addressed in PPD-8: 
prevention, protection, mitigation, response, and recovery. 
National Response Framework—Guidance that documents the key response principles, roles, 
and structures that organize a unified, national, all-hazards response. 
Natural Disaster—An emergency situation posing significant danger to life and property that 
results from a natural cause. 
Preparedness—The range of deliberate, critical tasks and activities necessary to build, sustain, 
and improve the operational capability to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from 
domestic incidents. Preparedness is a continuous process involving efforts at all levels of 
government between government sectors, private sectors, and nongovernmental organizations to 
identify threats, determine vulnerabilities, and identify required resources. 
Prevention—Actions to avoid an incident or to intervene to stop an incident from occurring. 
Prevention involves actions to protect lives and property. It involves applying intelligence and 
other information to a range of activities that may include such countermeasures as deterrence 
operations; heightened inspections; improved surveillance and security operations; investigations 
to determine the full nature and source of the threat; public health and agricultural surveillance and 
testing processes; immunizations, isolation or quarantine; and, as appropriate, specific law 
enforcement operations aimed at deterring, preempting, interdicting, or disrupting illegal activity 
and apprehending potential perpetrators and bringing them to justice. 
Program Objective Memorandum—The final product of the programming process within the 
DoD, the DoD component’s program objective memorandum displays the resource allocation 
decisions of the Military Departments in response to and IAW planning and programming 
guidance. 
 
 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
17 
Recovery—The development, coordination, and execution of service- and site-restoration plans 
for impacted communities and the reconstitution of government operations and services through 
individual, private sector, nongovernmental, and public assistance programs that: identify needs 
and define resources; provide housing and promote restoration; address long-term care and 
treatment of affected persons; implement additional measures for community restoration; 
incorporate mitigation measures and techniques, as feasible; evaluate the incident to identify 
lessons learned; and develop initiatives to mitigate the effects of future incidents. 
Response—Activities that address the short-term, direct effects of an incident. Response includes 
immediate actions to save lives, protect property, and meet basic human needs. Response also 
includes the execution of emergency operations plans and of incident mitigation activities designed 
to limit the loss of life, personal injury, property damage, and other unfavorable outcomes. As 
indicated by the situation, response activities include: applying intelligence and other information 
to lessen the effects or consequences of an incident; increased security operations; continuing 
investigations into the nature and source of the threat; ongoing public health and agricultural 
surveillance and testing processes; immunizations, isolation or quarantine; and specific law 
enforcement operations aimed at preempting, interdicting or disrupting illegal activity and 
apprehending actual perpetrators and bringing them to justice. 
Response Task Force—A Military Department-specific DoD response force designed to direct 
DoD nuclear weapon incident and consequence management activities at a U.S. nuclear weapon 
incident site. Combatant commanders establish operational control of Response Task Forces at an 
appropriate time in the response, when ordered by the SecDef. 
Risk Assessment—The process of systematically identifying, assessing, and managing risks 
arising from operational factors and making decisions that balance risk cost with mission benefits 
as described in DoDIO-2000.16V1_DAFI31-245-O, Antiterrorism Program Implementation. The 
end product of the risk management process is the identification of areas and assets that are 
vulnerable to the identified threat attack means. From the assessment of risk based upon the three 
critical components of risk management (threat assessment, criticality assessment, and 
vulnerability assessment), the commander determines which assets require the most protection and 
where future expenditures minimize risk of attack or lessen the severity of the outcome of an 
attack. 
Risk Management—A continual process or cycle where risks are identified, measured, and 
evaluated; countermeasures are designed, implemented, and monitored to see how they perform, 
with a continual feedback loop for decision-maker input to improve countermeasures and consider 
trade-offs between risk acceptance and risk avoidance. 
Threat Assessment—In AT, examining the capabilities, intentions, and activities, past and 
present, of terrorist organizations as well as the security environment within which friendly forces 
operate to determine the level of threat. 
Total Force—For the purpose of this publication, Total Force includes Regular Air Force, Air 
Force Reserve, Air National Guard, Department of the Air Force and Non-appropriated Fund 
civilians, Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System enrolled family members, family 
members of Department of Air Force and Non-appropriated Fund employees (when receiving 
evacuation entitlements), and contractors and their family members when employed outside the 
continental United States. 
18 
DAFPD10-25  6 FEBRUARY 2024 
United States (U.S.)—The several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto 
Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Midway and Wake Islands, the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, any other territory, or possession of the U.S., and associated navigable waters, 
contiguous zones, and ocean waters of which the natural resources are under the exclusive 
management authority of the U.S. 
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD)—CBRNE weapons capable of a high order of destruction 
or causing mass casualties but excluding the means of transporting or propelling the weapon where 
such means is a separable and divisible part from the weapon. 
 
