BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-30 
4 MARCH 2025 
Operations 
PERSONNEL RECOVERY 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3S 
 
 
 
Certified by: AF/A3 (Lt Gen Adrian L. Spain) 
USSF: SF/COO (Lt Gen Deanna M. Burt, 
(Senior Coordinator)
Supersedes: 
AFPD 10-30, 28 August 2018 
AFPD 16-13, 1 March 2000 
Pages: 8 
 
 
This publication implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3002.01, Personnel 
Recovery in the Department of Defense; Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3002.02, 406 
Mhz Emergency Beacons and Other Emergency Reporting Devices in the Department of Defense 
in Support of Personnel Recovery and Search and Rescue; DoDI 3002.03, DoD Personnel 
Recovery - Reintegration of Recovered Personnel; DoDI 3002.04, DoD Personnel Recovery – 
Non-Conventional Assisted Recovery (NAR); DoDI O-3002.05, Personnel Recovery (PR) 
Education and Training; DoDI 2310.05, Accounting for Missing Persons – Boards of Inquiry; 
DoDI 3003.01, DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue (SAR) and is consistent with Headquarters 
Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations; Joint Publication 
(JP) 3-50, Personnel Recovery; HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower 
and Reserve Affairs. This directive issues overarching policy on conducting Personnel Recovery 
(PR) operations to maintain a global PR program. This publication applies to all civilian employees 
and uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, 
the United States Space Force, the Civil Air Patrol when conducting missions as the official Air 
Force Auxiliary, and those with a contractual obligation to abide by the terms of Department of 
the Air Force (DAF) publications. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed 
in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
2 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
Refer recommended changes, and questions about this publication to the office of primary 
responsibility (OPR) using the DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change Publication; route 
DAF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This DAFPD 
may not be supplemented. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been rewritten and should be reviewed in its entirety. Major changes include 
the merging of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 16-13, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and 
Escape (SERE) and AFPD 10-30, Personnel Recovery, and the updating of references to include 
current source information. 
 
 
 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
3 
1.  Overview.  PR is the sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to prepare for and execute 
the recovery and reintegration of isolated personnel (IP). IP are United States military, Department 
of Defense (DoD) civilians, and DoD contractor personnel authorized to accompany the Armed 
Forces of the United States (and others designated by the President or Secretary of Defense) who 
are separated from their unit or agency (as an individual or group) while participating in a US-
sponsored military activity or mission and are, or may be, in a situation where they must survive, 
evade, resist, or escape. The four functions of PR are: preparation, planning, execution, and 
adaptation. The five PR execution tasks are: report, locate, support, recover, and reintegrate. 
2.  Policy.  Preserving the lives, and well-being of DAF personnel placed in danger of being 
isolated, detained, captured, or having to evade while participating in a United States sponsored 
activity or mission is one of the highest priorities of the DAF. 
2.1.  The Air Force has the primary responsibility to recover DAF personnel who become 
isolated in an uncertain or hostile environment. They will maintain a global PR program to 
ensure Airmen and Guardians are trained in methods to prevent isolation and capture, and 
methods to survive, evade, resist, and escape in the event of isolation. 
2.2.  The DAF will train capable mission design series Aircrew and Air Force Special Warfare 
Airmen to execute the five PR tasks (report, locate, support, recover, and reintegrate). While 
the DAF may continue to organize, train, and equip to provide capability across the greater PR 
spectrum, the Air Force will prioritize providing a designated capability to meet the given 
changing and emerging threats faced by strategic competition. This capability will focus on a 
multi-layered (i.e., surface, air, space, and cyber domains) approach towards finding, fixing, 
tracking, and recovering isolated personnel. Efforts must be made to leverage emerging 
technologies (e.g., autonomous systems, small unmanned aerial systems, etc.), and surface 
maneuver elements to increase capacity and capability. The DAF forces will be trained and 
ready to integrate with joint forces, interagency, and multinational partners to effect recovery, 
however, are not postured to execute a PR Task Force unilaterally. 
2.2.1.  Preparation: Commanders and staff must be educated and trained to plan and 
implement the PR mission. Seamless execution of rescue missions necessitates peacetime 
integration of Air and Space Operations Center, and Joint Operations Center command and 
control functions in conjunction with designated and capable forces. Deploying DAF 
personnel will be trained in accordance with Department of Defense instructions and 
properly equipped to survive and evade for extended periods of time (i.e., greater than 72 
hours) across all mission-relative environmental conditions as well as trained to utilize 
caches in support of future operating concepts and schemes of maneuver. 
2.2.2.  Planning: Major commands (MAJCOMs) and field commands (FLDCOMs) will 
ensure resources are provided to allow adequate PR planning capability with each other, 
joint forces, interagency, and multinational partners. Prior to the need to conduct coalition 
PR operations, Airmen and Guardians will work with host and partner nations to build 
partner capacity that spans the competition continuum. Component-Numbered Air Forces 
(C-NAFs) will ensure proper planning is conducted to identify all capable forces, command 
and control architecture, and authorities to support the recovery of DAF personnel. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
2.2.3.  Execution: The Air Force PR architecture will be effective in reporting incidents, 
locating, supporting, recovering, and reintegrating IP. Applicable MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, 
and C-NAFs will ensure applicable PR coordination cells, PR centers, or capable PR nodes 
are adequately manned, trained, and equipped to meet or exceed all requirements in this 
paragraph. The C-NAF staff and applicable command and control cells must be prepared 
to plan, track and re-task capable forces to execute immediate or deliberate recovery of 
DAF personnel. 
2.2.3.1.  Report: Units, command posts, and PR coordination cells or PR centers will 
develop reporting procedures for overdue, missing, or isolated aircraft and personnel 
across the competition continuum. 
2.2.3.2.  Locate: Applicable MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, and C-NAFs will ensure PR 
coordination cells or PR centers maintain command, control, communications, 
computers, intelligence, and reconnaissance systems to ascertain, and resolve the geo-
location of reported IP locations to airborne and ground recovery forces. The terms and 
associated actions of find, fix, and track may be applied to the locate task for PR 
planning and execution. 
2.2.3.3.  Support: Applicable MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, and C-NAFs will ensure PR 
coordination cells or PR centers have processes to help ensure the physical and 
psychological sustainment of the IP. This includes establishing two-way 
communication, situational awareness, morale, protection, resupply, directing to 
prepositioned caches, and support to the member’s family. 
2.2.3.4.  Recovery: The Air Force will maintain properly equipped and sufficiently 
manned forces to execute recovery operations. This includes weapon systems procured, 
sustained, and managed that can execute PR across the competition continuum via the 
air and surface while leveraging multi-domain effects. 
2.2.3.5.  Reintegration: The Air Force has an obligation to reintegrate its IP and assist 
other Services as requested. The purpose of reintegration is to gather critical 
information from recovered persons while protecting their health and welfare and 
return capability to the service. When such individuals are returned to United States 
control, the Air Force will provide the appropriate and necessary measures to 
accomplish a successful reintegration that expeditiously returns the recovered person 
back to duty or society based on the recovered person’s health, welfare, and isolating 
or captivity experience. This extends to the inclusion of the IP’s family through the 
reintegration event, as applicable. 
2.2.4.  Adaptation: MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs will ensure all members with PR equity 
will study lessons learned to adapt operations and tactics, techniques, and procedures to 
better prepare capable forces, and to mitigate risk to recovery operations. The Joint 
Personnel Recovery Agency establishes and maintains the PR lessons learned and 
adaptation program through the Joint Lessons Learned Information System. 
 
 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
5 
3.  Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will develop, 
coordinate, and oversee the implementation of Public Affairs plans and guidance for 
isolated/missing PR and reintegration events. 
3.2.  The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations (AF/A3) develops and interprets PR 
policy, and will: 
3.2.1.  Develop and implement comprehensive strategies to address PR requirements for 
DAF personnel at risk of isolation and exploitation. 
3.2.2.  Provide oversight and approval of guidance pertaining to the minimum PR training 
for all DAF personnel employed throughout the competition continuum and across all 
geographic combatant commands, the training and employment of designated and capable 
forces to conduct PR operations, and coordination of mission essential tasks and measures 
to meet PR requirements. 
3.2.3.  Ensure PR, emergency beacon, and other emergency reporting devices’ guidance 
complies with applicable DoD directives and instructions. 
3.2.4.  Maintain accountability for MAJCOM, FLDCOM, and C-NAF PR OPR contacts to 
promote efficient lines of communication. 
3.2.5.  Provide oversight for the Air Force SERE program to include establishing career 
developmental requirements, and identifying personnel requiring training, and formal 
training objectives. 
3.2.6.  Ensure guidance and procedures are in place to identify and track personnel who are 
SERE trained. 
3.3.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) will: 
3.3.1.  In coordination with AF/A3, provide overall guidance and instruction on medical 
aspects of the reintegration process and augment the medical facilities at designated 
locations, as required, to support reintegration. 
3.3.2.  In coordination with AF/A3, develop requirements for Air Force SERE 
psychologists to support Air Force reintegration programs and Air Force SERE initial 
training units. 
3.3.3.  Provide subject matter experts to assist in the requirement to identify, certify, and 
train SERE psychologists. 
3.4.  The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will develop, 
coordinate and oversee the implementation of casualty reporting, notification, and assistance 
for isolated, captured, or missing DAF personnel, in support of their next of kin, throughout 
the personnel recovery and reintegration events. Additionally, the AF/A1 will coordinate with 
Space Force Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital (SF/S1), as required. 
3.5.  Headquarters Air Combat Command will: 
 
 
6 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
3.5.1.  Develop, program, and budget adequate funding for acquisition of PR capabilities, 
facilities, equipment, training, and personnel. Capabilities include items such as specialized 
PR survival equipment, life support equipment, command, control, communications, 
computers, intelligence, reconnaissance equipment, aircraft, and systems in aircraft, 
vehicles, and forces with PR applications. Coordinate with the United States Space Force 
for satellite capability requirements supporting the PR mission. 
3.5.2.  Develop standards and guidance for the interoperability of PR-related equipment 
across the MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs. Review capability development documents to 
ensure integration of PR capabilities into future acquisition programs. 
3.5.3.  Coordinate and support Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7) regarding the development of 
the PR capability development plans and other PR future operating concepts. 
3.6.  Headquarters Air Education and Training Command will coordinate with AF/A3 to 
develop training curriculum meeting DoD and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
instructions to ensure PR training in Air Education and Training Command schools and that 
training locations meet warfighter requirements. 
3.7.  MAJCOMs, National Guard Bureau, FLDCOMs, field operating agencies, and direct 
reporting units will organize, train, and equip aircrew and other identified at-risk-of-isolation 
personnel for SERE operations, and develop, program, and budget adequate funding for 
facilities and equipment of their SERE programs. 
3.8.  All MAJCOMs, FLDCOMs, National Guard Bureau, and C-NAFs will establish and 
designate a command PR OPR and SERE program manager to coordinate with AF/A3 or A3 
designated OPR on implementation of applicable PR policy and training of commanders, 
staffs, and potential IP. 
3.9.  DAF Component Commanders of the Combatant Commands will plan and execute DAF 
PR operations supporting DAF personnel within their area of responsibility and will establish 
and maintain an OPR for PR operations, training, doctrine, support, and execution. In addition, 
they will identify requirements and shortfalls for DAF PR capabilities within their combatant 
command component and coordinate resource requirements through the applicable 
commander. 
 
GARY A. ASHWORTH 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
7 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 3002.01, Personnel Recovery in the Department of Defense, 16 April 2009 
DoDI 2310.05, Accounting for Missing Persons – Boards of Inquiry, 31 January 2000 
DoDI 3002.02, 406 MHz Emergency Beacons and Other Emergency Reporting Devices in the 
Department of Defense in Support of Personnel Recovery and Search and Rescue, 9 February 
2023 
DoDI 3002.03, DoD Personnel Recovery – Reintegration of Recovered Personnel, 15 July 2013 
DoDI 3002.04, DOD Personnel Recovery – Non-Conventional Assisted Recovery (NAR), 17 
November 2014 
DoDI O-3002.05, Personnel Recovery (PR) Education and Training, 12 April 2016 
DoDI 3003.01, DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue (SAR), 26 September 2011 
HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs, 28 January 
2019 
HAFMD 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, 8 September 2015 
JP 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 14 August 2023 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF—Air Force 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
C-NAF—Component-Numbered Air Force 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
8 
DAFPD10-30  4 MARCH 2025 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
IP—Isolated Personnel 
JP—Joint Publication 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
NAR—Non-Conventional Assisted Recovery 
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility 
PR—Personnel Recovery 
SAR—Search and Rescue 
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape 
Office Symbols 
AF/A1—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services 
AF/A3—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
AF/A3S—Air Force Special Warfare Directorate, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A5/7—Air Force Futures 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
SAF/PA—Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs 
SF/S1—Space Force Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital 
USSF/COO—United States Space Force Chief Operations Officer 
Terms 
Competition Continuum—Rather than a world either at peace or at war, the competition 
continuum describes a world of enduring competition conducted through a mixture of cooperation, 
competition below armed conflict, and armed conflict. 
Strategic Competition—The persistent and long-term interaction that occurs between relevant 
actors pursuing their interests across the competition continuum. 
Mission Essential Tasks—Tasks deemed essential to mission accomplishment and defined using 
the common language of the Universal Joint Task List in terms of tasks, conditions, and standards. 
Service and interagency task lists augment the Universal Joint Task List to provide a 
comprehensive integrated menu of tasks, conditions, and standards, which include measures of 
effectiveness, and their associated criteria of performance that support all levels of the Department 
of Defense in executing the National Military Strategy across the competition continuum. 
 
