BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-26 
19 DECEMBER 2024 
Operations 
COUNTERING WEAPONS  
OF MASS DESTRUCTION 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no restrictions on the release of this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A10S 
Certified by: AF/A10  
(Lt General Andrew J. Gebara 
SF COO: Lt General DeAnna M. Burt) 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-26, 20 August 2019 
Pages: 18 
 
 
This directive implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 2060.02, DoD Countering 
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Policy; DoD Directive 5160.05E, Roles and 
Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological Defense Program (CBDP); DoD 
Instruction 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability 
Policy; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) Instruction 3520.02C, U.S. Military Support 
to the Proliferation Security Initiative; and CJCS Instruction 5113.03A, Counterproliferation 
Interdiction Policy. This directive is consistent with DoD Directive S2060.04, DoD Support to the 
National Technical Nuclear Forensics (NTNF) Program (U); Air Force Policy Directive 10-24, 
Mission Assurance; Department of the Air Force (DAF) Policy Directive 10-25, Emergency 
Management Program; and Air Force Policy Directive 48-1, Aerospace & Operational Medicine 
Enterprise. This directive establishes overarching policy to ensure the DAF plans, organizes, 
trains, and equips its forces, units, and personnel to conduct activities to counter WMD across the 
operational spectrum. This directive applies to all civilian employees and uniformed members of 
the Regular Air Force, the United States Space Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National 
Guard, and those who are contractually obligated to comply with Department of the Air Force 
publications. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication 
adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance 
Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which 
is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended changes 
2 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the DAF 
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the field 
through the appropriate functional chain of command. This DAF policy directive may not be 
supplemented. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It has been re-
designated a DAF Policy Directive (DAFPD) and incorporates the USSF. It aligns with DAF 
Instruction 10-2601, Electromagnetic Pulse Survivability Program, and DAF Instruction 10-2602, 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Enterprise. Also, it acknowledges the transfer of 
implementing DoD Instruction 5210.88, Security Standards for Safeguarding Biological Select 
Agents and Toxins (BSAT), to the Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG), separate from Countering 
WMD, and the rescinding of Air Force Instruction 10-2611-O, Air Force Biological Select Agents 
and Toxins (BSAT) Program. 
 
1. 
Background. .............................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
Policy. ......................................................................................................................  
3 
3. 
Roles and Responsibilities. ......................................................................................  
4 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
15 
 
 
 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
3 
1.  Background. 
1.1.  The development, acquisition, testing, proliferation, and use of WMD are part of 
competitors’ and potential adversaries’ asymmetric efforts to counter United States (US) 
conventional military capabilities, refine capabilities to rapidly reshape conflict, and hold the 
US homeland at risk. Weapons of mass destruction present an existential threat to the US and 
its interests around the world. Airmen and Guardians must be resilient and ready to operate 
and succeed in highly contested environments. 
1.2.  The Secretary of Defense has determined that a security environment characterized by 
strategic competition with states in possession of WMD requires that the Joint Force increase 
countering WMD planning and training associated with readiness for potential military 
confrontation with competitors. In accordance with the President’s direction, the Secretary of 
Defense has tasked DoD to: deter WMD use and assure Allies and partners; build a Joint Force 
that can campaign, fight, and win in a CBRN environment; enable Allies and partners to 
counter WMD proliferation and use; and degrade actor capability to develop, acquire, or use 
WMD. 
2.  Policy.  The Department of the Air Force will: 
2.1.  Organize, train, and equip its forces to support DoD and US Government efforts to:  
defend the homeland from WMD attack, deter WMD attacks, prevail in CBRN environments, 
and prevent new WMD threats. 
2.2.  Establish and designate USAF and USSF offices to co-lead the DAF Countering WMD 
Enterprise, with participation from all functions, to coordinate and synchronize this cross-
functional mission. The Countering WMD Enterprise will: 
2.2.1.  Develop and validate operational concepts and DAF annexes to joint and DAF-
sponsored countering WMD and CBRN defense capability requirement documents. 
2.2.2.  Coordinate countering WMD and CBRN defense capability requirements with the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and support the CJCS and combatant 
command activities to advocate for military capabilities to counter WMD and operate in 
and through CBRN environments. 
2.2.3.  Budget for the operations and sustainment of CBRN defense equipment and 
materiel and provide personnel and facilities as required to support the CBRN defense joint 
materiel developer. 
2.2.4.  Coordinate countering WMD research, development, testing, and evaluation 
activities with the Under Secretary of Acquisition and Sustainment, Under Secretary of 
Research and Development, Assistant Secretary of Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological 
Programs, Director, Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA), and Director, Defense 
Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). 
2.2.5.  Implement and maintain a DAF CBRN survivability policy, to include a hardness 
assurance and a hardness maintenance/hardness surveillance program, in accordance with 
DoDI 3150.09. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
2.2.6.  Support counterproliferation interdiction in accordance with CJCSI 5113.03A. 
2.2.7.  Support Proliferation Security Initiative activity planning and execution in 
accordance with CJCSI 3520.02C. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(SAF/AQ) will: 
3.1.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
integration of countering WMD operational requirements into USAF research, 
development, and acquisition programs. 
3.1.2.  Coordinate with USAF program offices to address countering WMD issues 
impacting the survivability, testing, and employment of critical weapon systems. 
3.1.3.  In coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear 
Integration (AF/A10), the Office of the Secretary of Defense, DTRA, and DARPA, oversee 
and manage USAF countering WMD science and technology research. 
3.1.4.  Ensure CBRN survivability, to include hardness maintenance/hardness surveillance 
programs, is addressed in applicable USAF acquisition guidance. Support compilation of 
the Mission Critical Report in accordance with DoDI 3150.09. 
3.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ) will: 
3.2.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
integration of countering WMD operational requirements into USSF research, 
development, and acquisition programs. 
3.2.2.  Coordinate with USSF program offices to address countering WMD issues 
impacting the survivability, testing, and employment of critical space systems. 
3.2.3.  In coordination with the SF COO/S10, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, 
DTRA, and DARPA, oversee and manage USSF countering WMD science and technology 
research. 
3.2.4.  Ensure CBRN survivability, to include hardness maintenance/hardness surveillance 
programs, is addressed in applicable USSF acquisition guidance. Support compilation of 
the Mission Critical Report in accordance with DoDI 3150.09. 
3.3.  Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN) will: 
3.3.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the DAF Cybersecurity Strategy and 
required information technology, policies, and concepts to reduce risk to countering WMD 
operations. 
3.3.2.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the Authority to Operate process and 
points of contact for joint CBRN incident detection, warning, and analysis software 
applications on DAF networks and, in coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Operations (AF/A3) and the Chief Operations Officer (SF COO), command and control 
systems at DAF installations and operations centers. 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
5 
3.4.  The General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force (SAF/GC) will advise the DAF 
Countering WMD Enterprise on the development and review of strategy, plans, policies, 
procedures, 
training, 
and 
operations 
relating 
to 
countering 
WMD, 
including 
counterproliferation interdiction and Proliferation Security Initiative activities, to ensure 
consistency with US domestic law and the obligations of the US under international law, 
including the Law of War, treaties, and other international agreements. 
3.5.  The Secretary of the Air Force, Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) will: 
3.5.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on DAF inspection policy in accordance 
with DAF Policy Directive 90-3, Inspector General, and, as necessary, provide inspection 
feedback on unit capability to conduct and sustain countering WMD operations consistent 
with their mission(s). 
3.5.2.  Ensure the DAF Inspection System inspects critical combat missions in CBRN 
environments. 
3.6.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) will 
advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on the policy of manpower, military and civilian 
personnel, and reserve component affairs related to conducting countering WMD operations 
and operating in and through CBRN environments, consistent with Headquarters Air Force 
Mission Directive 1-24, Special Management, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower 
and Reserve Affairs) and DAF Policy Directive 36-81, Total Force Human Resource 
Management Governance. 
3.7.  Director of Public Affairs, the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/PA) will 
advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the public release of 
information regarding adversary WMD programs, current countering WMD operations, 
casualty and mortuary affairs guidance, and development of related capabilities to support 
future operations. 
3.8.  Director for Studies and Analysis (SAF/SA) will: 
3.8.1.  Provide analytic insights to support the Countering WMD Enterprise through 
application of analytical techniques such as mission-level and campaign-level modeling 
and simulation. 
3.8.2.  In coordination with Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) and 
Chief Strategy and Resourcing Officer (SF/S5/8), integrate relevant DAF inputs for 
countering WMD into Support for Strategic Analysis products (e.g., scenarios, concepts of 
operation, and multi-service force deployments), in accordance with DoD Directive 
8260.05, Support for Strategic Analysis (SSA). 
3.9.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will: 
3.9.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
integration of countering WMD operational requirements into developing the USAF Total 
Force, including the education, training, and the resourcing of related expertise to 
combatant commanders. 
 
 
6 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
3.9.2.  Support US Army incident response policies and capabilities to recover, contain, 
and transport chemically, biologically, and radiologically contaminated human remains 
and their associated personal effects in support of mortuary affairs and battlefield mortuary 
affairs operations. 
3.10.  Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO) (SF/S1) will advise the Countering WMD 
Enterprise and provide oversight of, and policy recommendations on, integrating countering 
WMD operational requirements into Guardians’ professional development. 
3.11.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance, and Cyber Effects 
Operations (AF/A2/6) will: 
3.11.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, and sourcing of 
USAF intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, and cyber effects capabilities and 
personnel to enable countering WMD operations. 
3.11.2.  Provide recommendations on integration of cyber operations into countering 
WMD operational requirements. 
3.11.3.  Support the Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority force development and 
management policies that cultivate readiness to conduct countering WMD operations and 
operate in and through CBRN environments. 
3.11.4.  Provide functional expertise to the Countering WMD Enterprise. 
3.11.5.  Plan, program, and budget for resources to support DAF countering WMD 
activities, to include National Technical Nuclear Forensics, the United States Atomic 
Energy Detection System, and other national and DoD programs. Serve as the Air Force 
lead for the implementation of DoDD S-2060.04. 
3.11.6.  Serve as the DAF lead for counterproliferation interdiction and implementation of 
CJCSI 5113.03A. 
3.12.  Chief Space Intelligence Officer (SIO) (SF/S2) will provide policy, guidance, and 
oversight for operations, training, and sourcing of USSF intelligence, surveillance, 
reconnaissance capabilities and personnel to enable countering WMD operations, to include 
counterproliferation interdiction operations in accordance with CJCSI 5113.03A. 
3.13.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) will: 
3.13.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, readiness, and 
sourcing of USAF air and cyberspace capabilities and personnel to conduct countering 
WMD operations. 
3.13.2.  Ensure USAF mission activities align with and support countering WMD 
operations, with particular emphasis on strategic attack, counterair, and cyberspace 
capabilities. 
3.13.3.  Support the Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority force development and 
management policies that cultivate readiness to counter WMD and operate in and through 
CBRN environments. 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
7 
3.13.4.  Integrate countering WMD considerations into operations policy and guidance for 
planning, execution, global integration, and assessment in support of combatant command 
operational plans, steady-state campaign plans, and Air Force campaign support plans. 
3.13.5.  Provide functional expertise to the Countering WMD Enterprise, including rated 
aircrew, Air Force special warfare, operational planners, air defense, targeting, mobility 
and combat air, and aircrew flight equipment to support the submission of formal USAF 
requirements for combat operations in a CBRN environment. 
3.13.6.  In coordination with SAF/CN, the Deputy Chief of Staff Logistics, Engineering 
and Force Protection (AF/A4), and AF/A10, advise the Countering WMD Enterprise on 
integrating joint CBRN incident detection, warning, and analysis applications into USAF 
command and control systems at installations and operations centers. 
3.13.7.  Designate an organization to serve as the USAF aircrew CBRN defense Capability 
Developer to represent the user community during the capability development and materiel 
acquisition process. 
3.13.8.  Provide USAF Mission Assurance guidance related to capability provider and 
asset owner activities for USAF-owned defense critical infrastructure, USAF Mission 
Assurance Forum structure, and USAF Mission Assurance specific training and education. 
3.14.  Chief Operations Officer (SF COO) (SF/S3/4/6/7/10) will: 
3.14.1.  Co-lead with AF/A10 the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise to coordinate and 
synchronize efforts in accordance with policy directed in paragraph 2. 
3.14.2.  Co-chair, when appropriate, the DAF Countering WMD Council to oversee USSF 
countering WMD policy, planning, programming, resource allocation and program 
evaluation activities. 
3.14.3.  Delegate countering WMD operations roles and responsibilities to subordinate 
directors, when appropriate, as specified in paragraphs 3.16 and 3.22.  
3.15.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection (AF/A4) will: 
3.15.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, and sourcing of 
logistics, civil engineering, maintenance, force protection, fire protection, emergency 
management, non-medical and non-aircrew decontamination, and explosive ordnance 
disposal capabilities. 
3.15.2.  Organize, plan, train, and equip forces to conduct and support operations under the 
auspices of full-spectrum readiness to include CBRN defense, CBRN response, and other 
countering WMD operations within authorities granted by higher level policies. 
3.15.3.  As the DAF CBRN Defense Modernization and Sustainment lead, in accordance 
with DoDD 5160.05E and in coordination with the designated capability developers, 
oversee modernization of DAF CBRN defense capabilities, the sustainment of those 
fielded capabilities, and Air Force Materiel Command’s (AFMC) planning, programming, 
budgeting, and execution of non-medical CBRN defense capabilities. 
3.15.4.  Represent DAF, in coordination with the other DAF CBRN defense leads, to the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense Chemical and Biological Defense Enterprise and for 
development and compilation of its Program Objective Memorandum. 
8 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
3.15.5.  Provide functional expertise to support CBRN defense and CBRN response 
operational requirements. 
3.15.6.  Communicate updates to DAF requirements in previously approved capabilities 
documents to the Joint Staff/J-8 Joint Requirements Office for CBRN Defense and the 
Joint Program Executive Office for CBRN Defense. 
3.15.7.  Prepare and submit the DAF CBRN Defense Program Budget, including the 
operational sustainment of CBRN medical materiel. 
3.15.8.  In coordination with AF/A3, develop and oversee the plan for training all Airmen 
and Guardians in CBRN defense. 
3.15.9.  Serve as DAF lead for implementing DoD Instruction 3020.52, DoD Installation 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) 
Preparedness Standards, in accordance with DAFPD 10-25, and synchronize efforts with 
the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise. 
3.15.10.  Support the Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority force development and 
management policies that cultivate readiness to counter WMD and operate in and through 
CBRN environments. 
3.15.11.  Designate an organization to serve as the DAF non-aircrew, non-medical CBRN 
defense capability developer to represent the user community during the capability 
development and materiel acquisition process. 
3.15.12.  Ensure CBRN survivability, to include hardness maintenance/hardness 
surveillance programs, is addressed in applicable DAF military construction guidance 
documents. Support compilation of the Mission Critical Report in accordance with DoDI 
3150.09. 
3.15.13.  Provide functional expertise to the Countering WMD Enterprise, to include 
supporting the submission of formal DAF requirements for CBRN defense. 
3.16.  Chief Operations Officer, Director of Mission Sustainment (SF COO/S4), will: 
3.16.1.  Coordinate with AF/A4, as the DAF CBRN Defense Modernization and 
Sustainment lead, in the submission of formal DAF requirements for CBRN defense and 
fielding of that equipment to ensure the USSF can operate in and through CBRN 
environments. 
3.16.2.  Lead USSF implementation of DoDI 3150.09, to include compilation of the 
Mission Critical Report and ensure CBRN survivability considerations are addressed in 
USSF military construction guidance documents. 
3.16.3.  In coordination with SAF/CN, AF/A4, and AF/A10, advise Countering WMD 
Enterprise on integrating joint CBRN incident detection, warning, and analysis 
applications into USSF command and control systems at installations and operations 
centers. 
3.17.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7) will: 
 
 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
9 
3.17.1.  Advise the Countering WMD Enterprise and provide recommendations on the 
integration of countering WMD operational requirements, including CBRN survivability, 
into existing and new USAF capabilities. Support compilation of the Mission Critical 
Report in accordance with DoDI 3150.09. 
3.17.2.  Represent the USAF to the Joint community on countering WMD operational 
requirements through the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System and the 
Joint Requirements Oversight Council. 
3.18.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will ensure countering WMD 
operational requirements, including CBRN survivability, are addressed in the programming, 
planning, budgeting, and execution process. 
3.19.  Chief Strategy and Resourcing Officer (CSRO) (SF/S5/8) will: 
3.19.1.  As the lead for the USSF requirements process, ensure requirements are captured 
and validated in the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System for applicable 
capabilities supporting countering WMD operations. 
3.19.2.  Represent the USSF to the Joint community on countering WMD operational 
requirements through Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System and the Joint 
Requirements Oversight Council. 
3.19.3.  As the lead for the USSF planning and programming process, integrate countering 
WMD considerations into USSF resource allocation and planning, programming, 
budgeting, and execution policy and guidance as well as planning and programming 
process activities. 
3.20.  Chief Technology and Innovation Officer (SF/CTIO) will advise the Countering WMD 
Enterprise and provide recommendations on the application of future USSF capabilities to 
support countering WMD operations. 
3.21.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10) will: 
3.21.1.  Co-lead with SF COO the Countering WMD Enterprise to coordinate and 
synchronize efforts in accordance with policy directed in paragraph 2. 
3.21.2.  Serve as the USAF lead for implementing DoDD 2060.02, DoDD 5160.05E, and 
DoDI 3150.09. 
3.21.3.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, and sourcing of 
USAF nuclear deterrent capabilities and personnel to enable countering WMD operations 
and synchronize efforts with the conventional-nuclear integration concept. Provide related 
subject matter expertise to the Countering WMD Enterprise. 
3.21.4.  Serve as the USAF focal point for DoD, Joint, combined, and interagency plans, 
programs, and studies related to countering WMD operations. 
3.21.5.  Serve as the lead for the Proliferation Security Initiative and point of contact for 
CJCSI 3520.02C. 
3.21.6.  Establish and chair, and when appropriate co-chair with SF COO, the DAF 
Countering WMD Council to oversee DAF Countering WMD policy, planning, 
programming, resource allocation and program evaluation activities. 
10 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
3.21.7.  Develop, integrate, and synchronize DAF countering WMD concepts, strategy, 
policy, and doctrine. 
3.21.8.  Provide operational planning expertise to major commands and combatant 
commands on conducting air operations in support of countering WMD operations and 
mitigating CBRN impacts to air and space operations and recommend mitigation strategies. 
3.21.9.  Oversee the incorporation of combatant command, major command, direct 
reporting unit, and field operating agency countering WMD operational requirements into 
the development of USAF capabilities through participation in established processes for 
requirements, acquisition, programming, planning, budgeting, and execution. 
3.21.10.  Ensure USAF countering WMD capabilities include operational considerations 
and are operationally relevant when fielded to communities required to continue operations 
in WMD or WMD-threatened environments. 
3.21.11.  Develop, coordinate, and implement USAF cross-functional countering WMD 
operational concepts for air operations. 
3.21.12.  Conduct countering WMD-related, operationally focused studies and analyses for 
air operations. Appropriately incorporate results into USAF and Joint concepts, strategies, 
plans, programs, and operational requirements. 
3.21.13.  Coordinate countering WMD activities and operations with the other Services; 
the Office of the Secretary of Defense; the Joint Staff; coalition partners; host-nations; and 
federal, state, and local organizations. 
3.21.14.  In coordination with SAF/SA, the DTRA, and United States Special Operations 
Command (USSOCOM), ensure that strategies developed to reduce the risks of operating 
in CBRN environments are based on operational analyses. Upon request, provide related 
WMD operational analysis expertise to SAF/SA, DTRA, and USSOCOM, for air 
operations. 
3.21.15.  Lead and coordinate expertise on countering WMD operational requirements in 
support of AF/A5/7 responsibilities as the USAF representatives to the Joint requirements 
community. 
3.21.16.  As the USAF CBRN Defense Operations lead, in accordance with DoDD 
5160.05E, prioritize USAF operational requirements for CBRN defense in coordination 
with AF/A4, major commands, and CBRN defense capability developers, identify threats 
and vulnerabilities related to CBRN weapons and material, and integrate results from 
related operational studies and analysis to identify, in coordination with the other DAF 
CBRN Defense leads, DAF modernization priorities for the DoD Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program and other related CBRN defense programs. Delegate authority for 
execution of specified mission areas to other directorates as appropriate. 
3.22.  Chief Operations Officer, Director of Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Command, 
Control, and Communications Integration (SF COO/S10) will: 
3.22.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, readiness, and 
sourcing of USSF capabilities and personnel to support countering WMD operations. 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
11 
3.22.2.  Ensure USSF mission activities align with and support countering WMD 
operations, with particular emphasis on strategic attack and cyberspace capabilities. 
3.22.3.  Support the Nuclear Enterprise Functional Authority force development and 
management policies that cultivate readiness to counter WMD and operate in and through 
CBRN environments. 
3.22.4.  Integrate countering WMD considerations into operations policy and guidance for 
planning, execution, global integration, and assessment in support of combatant command 
operational plans, steady-state campaign plans, and Air Force campaign support plans. 
3.22.5.  Serve as the USSF lead for implementing DoDD 2060.02, DoDD 5160.05E, DoDI 
3150.09, and CJCSI 3520.02C. 
3.22.6.  Serve as the USSF focal point for DoD, Joint, combined, and interagency plans, 
programs, and studies related to countering WMD operations. 
3.22.7.  Provide operational planning expertise on CBRN impacts to space operations and 
recommend mitigation strategies to field commands and combatant commands. 
3.22.8.  Oversee the incorporation of combatant command, field command, direct reporting 
unit, and field operating agency countering WMD operational requirements into the 
development of USSF capabilities through participation in established processes for 
requirements, acquisition, programming, planning, budgeting, and execution. 
3.22.9.  Ensure USSF countering WMD capabilities include operational considerations and 
are operationally relevant when fielded to communities required to continue operations in 
WMD or WMD-threatened environments. 
3.22.10.  Develop, coordinate, and implement USSF cross-functional countering WMD 
operational concepts for space operations. 
3.22.11.  Conduct countering WMD-related, operationally focused studies and analyses for 
space operations. Appropriately incorporate results into USSF and Joint concepts, 
strategies, plans, programs, and operational requirements. 
3.22.12.  Coordinate countering WMD activities and operations with the other Services; 
the Office of the Secretary of Defense; the Joint Staff; coalition partners; host-nations; and 
federal, state, and local organizations. 
3.22.13.  In coordination with SAF/SA, the DTRA, and United States Special Operations 
Command (USSOCOM), ensure that strategies developed to reduce the risks of operating 
in CBRN environments are based on operational analyses. Upon request, provide related 
WMD operational analysis expertise to SAF/SA, DTRA, and USSOCOM, for space 
operations. 
3.22.14.  Lead and coordinate expertise on countering WMD operational requirements in 
support of SF/S5/8 as the USSF representatives to the Joint requirements community. 
 
 
12 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
3.22.15.  As the USSF CBRN Defense Operations lead, in accordance with DoDD 
5160.05E, prioritize USSF operational requirements for CBRN defense in coordination 
with SF/S4, field commands, and CBRN defense capability developers, identify threats 
and vulnerabilities related to CBRN weapons and material, and integrate results from 
related operational studies and analysis to identify, in coordination with the other DAF 
CBRN Defense leads, DAF modernization priorities for the DoD Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program and other related CBRN defense programs. Delegate authority for 
execution of specified mission areas to other directorates as appropriate. 
3.23.  The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) will advise the DAF Countering WMD Enterprise 
on the development and review of strategy, plans, policies, procedures, training, and operations 
relating to countering WMD, including counterproliferation interdiction and Proliferation 
Security Initiative activities, to ensure consistency with US domestic law and the obligations 
of the US under international law, including the Law of War, treaties, and other international 
agreements. 
3.24.  The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) will: 
3.24.1.  Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for operations, training, readiness, and 
sourcing of DAF medical and aeromedical capabilities and personnel to support countering 
WMD operations, CBRN defense operations, and other operations in a CBRN 
environment. 
3.24.2.  As the DAF CBRN Defense Medical lead, plan, program, and budget for 
sustainment resources to organize, train and equip medical forces to conduct medical 
CBRN defense operations and activities, and provide medical CBRN Defense subject 
matter expertise to the other DAF CBRN Defense leads. 
3.24.3.  Provide functional expertise to the Countering WMD Enterprise, including 
supporting the submission of formal DAF requirements for medical and non-medical 
CBRN defense. 
3.24.4.  Designate an organization to serve as DAF medical CBRN defense capability 
developer to represent the user community during the capability development and materiel 
acquisition process. 
3.24.5.  Oversee the sustainment of fielded DAF medical CBRN defense capabilities to 
ensure they remain operational in accordance with DoDD 5160.05E. 
3.25.  Commanders of Major Commands, Field Commands, and Direct Reporting Units and 
Director, Air National Guard will: 
3.25.1.  Provide assigned forces to supported combatant commands in support of 
countering WMD operations, missions, and activities as directed by the Secretary of 
Defense. 
3.25.2.  Develop plans, policies and procedures and budget to train and exercise their 
assigned forces to conduct and sustain countering WMD operations and to integrate related 
capabilities. 
3.25.3.  Ensure CBRN survivability is addressed in applicable capability development, 
testing, and procurement guidance. Support compilation of the Mission Critical Report in 
accordance with DoDI 3150.09. 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
13 
3.25.4.  For major commands that are capability developers for manned aircraft platforms, 
coordinate with designated CBRN defense materiel and capability developers to consider 
requirements for aircrew protection, contamination mitigation, and CBRN detection 
equipment (where applicable) are integrated into aircraft design, operations, and 
maintenance. 
3.26.  Commander, Air Combat Command will lead development and acquisition of required 
kinetic and non-kinetic capabilities to disrupt or defeat adversary WMD. 
3.27.  Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) will: 
3.27.1.  Lead USAF electro-magnetic pulse (EMP) hardness testing and oversee 
implementation of EMP hardness maintenance/hardness surveillance programs. 
3.27.2.  Oversee integration of USAF EMP maintenance/hardness surveillance program 
with USSF Survivable/Endurable Program and elevate Service prioritization issues to 
Secretary of the Air Force for adjudication, as required. 
3.28.  Commander, Space Operations Command (SpOC) will: 
3.28.1.  Lead Survivable/Endurable Program for all integrated tactical warning/attack 
assessment and nuclear command, control, and communications assets within the USSF 
portfolio. 
3.28.2.  Oversee integration of USSF Survivable/Endurable Program with USAF EMP 
maintenance/hardness surveillance program and elevate Service prioritization issues to 
Secretary of the Air Force for adjudication, as required. 
3.29.  Commander, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will: 
3.29.1.  In coordination with AF/A4, AF/A10, SF COO/S10, and AF/SG, serve as the DAF 
representative to the Chemical and Biological Defense Program’s Joint Science and 
Technology Office. 
3.29.2.  Provide science and technology research to improve DAF countering WMD 
capabilities. 
3.29.3.  In coordination with AF/A4, SF COO/S4, AF/A10, SF COO/S10, and AF/SG, 
represent the DAF, through designated program office(s), to the Joint Program Executive 
Office for Chemical and Biological Defense for the life cycle management of CBRN 
defense capabilities. 
3.29.4.  Establish equipment, training and manpower requirements and support the 
planning, programming, budgeting, and execution for the sustainment of CBRN defense 
capabilities. 
3.29.5.  Manage the developmental test and evaluation and life cycle of weapons and 
capabilities to disrupt or defeat an adversary’s WMD. 
3.29.6.  Establish the USAF EMP Effects Program Management Office (EEPMO). 
3.30.  Commander, Space Systems Command, will establish the USSF EEPMO. 
3.31.  Commander, Air Force Special Operations Command will: 
14 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
3.31.1.  In coordination with AFMC and designated CBRN defense capability developers, 
will lead the development and acquisition of countering WMD capabilities specific to Air 
Force Special Operations Forces. 
3.31.2.  Assist AF/A10 and SF COO/S10 in coordinating DAF countering WMD 
operational planning and doctrine issues with USSOCOM, the DoD Countering WMD 
Coordinating Authority. 
3.32.  Commander, Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center will: 
3.32.1.  Plan, participate in, and conduct operational test and evaluation activities as 
directed by DAF Policy Directive 99-1, Test and Evaluation, to ensure USAF materiel and 
equipment meet DAF countering WMD operational standards and requirements. 
3.32.2.  Coordinate with the Joint Staff to synchronize and deconflict operational testing 
and evaluation efforts with operational exercise imperatives. 
3.33.  Commander, Space Training and Readiness Command (STARCOM) will, as the USSF 
Operational Test Agency (OTA), plan, participate in, and conduct operational test and 
evaluation activities as directed by DAF Policy Directive 99-1 to ensure Space systems and 
other USSF material and equipment meet DAF countering WMD operational standards and 
requirements. 
 
FRANK KENDALL 
Secretary of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
15 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 2060.02, Department of Defense (DoD) Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
(WMD) Policy, 27 January 2017 
DoDD S-2060.04, DOD Support to the National Technical Nuclear Forensics (NTNF) Program 
(U), 1 April 2009 
DoDD 5160.05E, Roles and Responsibilities Associated with the Chemical and Biological 
Defense Program (CBDP), 8 September 2017 
DoDD 8260.05, Support for Strategic Analysis (SSA), 7 July 2011 
DoDI 3020.52, DoD Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield 
Explosive (CBRNE) Preparedness Standards, 18 May 2012 
DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability 
Policy, 8 April 2015 
DoDI 5210.88, Security Standards for Safeguarding Biological Select Agents and Toxins 
(BSAT), 26 May 2020 
CJCSI 3520.02C, U.S. Military Support to the Proliferation Security Initiative, 24 May 2019 
CJCSI 5113.03A, Counterproliferation Interdiction Policy, 25 October 2019 
AFPD 10-24, Mission Assurance, 5 November 2019 
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace & Operational Medicine Enterprise (AOME), 7 June 2019 
DAFPD 10-25, Emergency Management Program, 6 February 2024 
DAFPD 36-81, Total Force Human Resource Management Governance, 23 October 2020 
DAFPD 90-3, Inspector General, 3 February 2021 
DAFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation, 21 May 2021 
HAFMD 1-24, Special Management, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and 
Reserve Affairs), 28 January 2019 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Joint Publication (JP) 3-11, Operations in Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear 
Environments, 29 September 2024 
Joint Publication 3-40, Joint Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, 27 November 2019 
Air Force Doctrine Publication (AFDP) 3-0, Operations and Planning, 4 November 2016 
AFDP 3-70, Strategic Attack, 22 November 2021 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
16 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFDP—Air Force Doctrine Publication 
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
BSAT—Biological Select Agents and Toxins 
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear 
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 
EEPMO—Electromagnetic Pulse Effects Program Management Office 
DAFI—Department of the Air Force Instruction 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DARPA—Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency 
EMP—Electromagnetic Pulse 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
JP—Joint Publication 
US—United States 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command 
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction 
Office Symbols 
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services 
AF/A2/6—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance and Cyber Effects 
Operations 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A4—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics Engineering and Force Protection 
AF/A5/7—Deputy Chief of Staff for Air Force Futures 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
17 
AF/A10—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration 
AF/JA—Air Force Judge Advocate General 
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics 
SAF/CN—Chief Information Officer 
SAF/GC—Office of the General Counsel of the Air Force 
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of the Inspector General 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SAF/PA—Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs 
SAF/SA—Director for Studies and Analysis 
SAF/SQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration 
SF COO/S4—Director of Mission Sustainment 
SF COO/S10—Director of Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Command, Control, and 
Communications Integration 
SF/S1—Chief Human Capital Officer (also called CHCO) 
SF/S2—Chief Space Intelligence Officer (also called SIO) 
SF/S3/4/6/7/10—Chief Operations Officer (also called COO) 
SF/S5/8—Chief Strategy and Resourcing Officer (also called CSRO) 
SF/CTIO—Chief Technology and Innovation Officer 
Terms 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Defense—Actions taken to counter chemical, 
biological, radiological, or nuclear hazards; reduce their risks; and prepare for, respond to, and 
recover from chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear incidents. Also called CBRN defense. 
(JP 3-11) 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Environment—An operational environment 
that includes probable chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear threats and hazards and their 
resulting effects. Also called CBRN environment. (JP 3-11) 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Survivability—The capability of a system to 
withstand or operate during and after exposure to a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear 
environment (and decontamination process) without losing the ability to perform the assigned 
mission. Survivability against chemical, biological, and radiological contamination (including 
radioactive fallout) concerns requirements for CBR hardness, CBR decontaminability, and CBR 
compatibility. Nuclear hardness adds the requirements of survivability against initial nuclear 
weapon effects (i.e., blast, EMP, and other initial radiation and shockwave effects). 
18 
DAFPD10-26  19 DECEMBER 2024 
Capability Developer—Command or agency that formulates doctrine, concepts, organization, 
materiel requirements, and objectives. May be used generically to represent the user community 
role in the materiel acquisition process. 
Counterproliferation Interdiction—A proactive United States government mission for 
deterring, making more costly, inhibiting, disrupting, and preventing trafficking in shipments of 
proliferation concern. (CJCSI 5113.03A) 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction—Efforts against actors of concern to curtail the 
conceptualization, development, possession, proliferation, use, and effects of weapons of mass 
destruction, related expertise, materials, technologies, and means of delivery. (JP 3-40) 
Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Enterprise—People, organizations, processes, 
procedures, and systems conducting, executing, and supporting countering WMD operations, and 
developing and implementing related policy and guidance. 
Kinetic—Relating to actions designed to produce effects using the forces and energy of moving 
bodies and directed energy, including physical damage to, alteration of, or destruction of targets. 
Kinetic actions can have lethal or non-lethal effects. (AFDP 3-0, Operations and Planning) 
Non-kinetic—Relating to actions designed to produce effects without the direct use of the force 
or energy of moving objects and directed energy sources. Non-kinetic actions can have lethal or 
non-lethal results. (AFDP 3-0) 
Proliferation Security Initiative—Global, multinational effort aiming to stop the trafficking of 
weapons of mass destruction, their delivery systems, and related materials to and from states and 
non-state actors of proliferation concern. (CJCSI 3520.02C) 
Strategic Attack—Offensive action specifically selected to achieve national strategic objectives. 
These attacks seek to weaken the adversary’s ability or will to engage in conflict and may achieve 
strategic objectives without necessarily having to achieve operational objectives as a precondition. 
(AFDP 3-70, Strategic Attack) 
Weapons of Mass Destruction—Chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons capable 
of a high order of destruction or causing mass casualties, excluding the means of transporting or 
propelling the weapon where such means is a separable and divisible part from the weapon. (JP 3-
40) 
 
