BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-15 
25 NOVEMBER 2024 
Operations 
ELECTROMAGNETIC  
SPECTRUM OPERATIONS 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil  for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A2/6L 
Certified by: AF/A2/6  
(Lt Gen Leah G. Lauderback)
Pages: 19 
 
 
This publication implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3222.03, DoD 
Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 
3610.01, Electromagnetic Spectrum Enterprise Policy, DoDD 3222.04, Electronic Warfare (EW) 
Policy; DoDI 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic 
Spectrum and is consistent with the guidance established with National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration (NTIA), Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio 
Frequency Management (also known as “Redbook”). This Department of the Air Force Policy 
Directive (DAFPD) is consistent with Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-18, 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Energy), DAFPD 13-6, Space 
Policy, DAFPD 17-2, Cyberspace, AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, AFPD 91-2, 
Safety Programs, and AFPD 91-4, Directed Energy System Safety. This (DAFPD) provides 
guidance for the United States Air Force (USAF) and United States Space Force (USSF) use of 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations (EMSO) to enhance resiliency, responsiveness, and agility 
of operations and permits the conduct of operations at a given time and place without prohibitive 
interference while affecting an adversary’s ability to do the same. In addition, EMSO will enable 
support to and achievement of Department of Defense (DoD), combatant commanders’, and other 
commanders’ objectives and effects. This publication applies to all civilian employees and 
uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard, the 
USSF, and those with a contractual obligation to abide by the terms of Department of the Air Force 
(DAF) publications. If this publication conflicts with DoD or with joint guidance, the joint 
publication will take precedence.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed 
in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and 
2 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule, which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System.  
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary 
responsibility (OPR) using DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route 
DAF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This DAFPD 
may not be supplemented. 
 
 
1. 
Overview. .................................................................................................................  
3 
2. 
Policy. ......................................................................................................................  
3 
3. 
Roles and Responsibilities. ......................................................................................  
5 
Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
 
15 
 
 
 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
3 
1.  Overview. 
1.1.  This directive establishes the DAF policy for electromagnetic spectrum (EMS) superiority 
governance, management, capability development, operations and sustainment, and capability 
divestment. In addition, this directive designates USAF Major Command (MAJCOM) and 
USSF Field Command (FLDCOM) roles and responsibilities for these capabilities in support 
of objectives and effects. This policy also provides the Director, Electromagnetic Spectrum 
Superiority, AF/A2/6L, and Director, Cyber Operations and Spectrum Integration, 
SF/COO/S6C, the authority to fulfill the duties established in federal laws and DoD issuances. 
1.2.  The EMS is a maneuvering space and physical environment that exists regardless of 
human interaction. It consists of physical and temporal properties characterized by frequency, 
waveform, power, and time. It can be managed, occupied, and selectively controlled like other 
physical environments where natural and artificial factors affect actions in and through the 
EMS.  The EMS is pervasive and permeating, linking all military operations in and across the 
air, land, maritime, cyberspace, and space warfighting domains in which warfighting concepts 
such as mass, maneuver, and fires are employed. The EMS is finite, and the increasing demand 
from military, civilian, and commercial users create congestion by increasing the number and 
density of electromagnetic (EM) emitters. Operations in the EMS are constrained and framed 
by physics, technology, and policy and are governed by domestic law and international legal 
obligations.  Technology, and the continually changing regulatory environment make new 
portions of the EMS accessible and exploitable. The EMS is contested and dynamic, allowing 
potential adversaries to deny us the freedom of maneuver and action essential to U.S. and 
multinational operations. 
1.3.  The physical EM environment is comprised of all naturally occurring, friendly, neutral, 
and enemy EM radiation within the area of operations. The DAF provides forces and 
capabilities to employ EMSO ensuring friendly forces’ intended usage of the EMS while 
creating effects such as detection, denial, degradation, deception, and destruction against an 
adversary. EMSO involves the synchronized employment of electromagnetic warfare, signals 
intelligence, spectrum management, and additional functions for controlling and defending 
EMS access throughout the air, land, maritime, cyberspace, and space warfighting domains to 
enable tactical, operational, and strategic advantage. 
1.4.  EMSO, employed appropriately, enables the attainment of EMS superiority.  EMS 
superiority is the degree of control that permits secure, reliable conduct of operations at a given 
time and place in the EMS without prohibitive interference from the opposing force. 
2.  Policy.  The Department of the Air Force (DAF) will: 
2.1.  Achieve EMS superiority using EMSO to enable exploitation of the physical 
electromagnetic environment to execute, enhance, and support DAF and combatant 
commands’ core missions and support U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM) in 
accomplishing its specific EMSO responsibilities. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
2.2.  Execute EMSO to support joint and coalition warfighter operations, increase the 
effectiveness of its core functions, and increase resiliency and survivability.  Successful 
execution of EMSO requires integrated and synchronized execution of EW (electromagnetic 
attack, electromagnetic protection, and electromagnetic support), space operations, signals 
intelligence, electromagnetic battle management, spectrum management, and additional 
functions for controlling the EMS throughout the air, land, maritime, cyberspace, and space 
warfighting domains. 
2.3.  Integrate EMS superiority concepts into the USAF, USSF, and joint military strategy, 
plans, doctrine, operations, exercises, system architectures, electromagnetic spectrum-
dependent (S-D) systems’ development, and functional and professional military and civilian 
training and education so DAF personnel can use electromagnetic S-D systems as intended in 
any relevant electromagnetic environments. 
2.4.  Enable MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs to organize, train, and equip forces to provide EMSO 
subject matter experts for operations and planning to combatant and component commanders, 
as required. 
2.5.  Enable MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs to organize, train, and provide EMS subject matter 
experts in acquisition and system development efforts to ensure spectrum management 
awareness, concepts, and design/integration requirements are embedded through the entire 
weapons life cycle. 
2.6.  Develop and employ common electromagnetic systems’ architectures, standards, and 
protocols to ensure friendly-force interference mitigation (inclusive of infrastructure related 
systems) and deliver desired warfighting effects within an electromagnetic environment via 
electromagnetic battle management. 
2.7.  Develop, acquire, and field electromagnetic and directed energy weapons capabilities; 
operational tactics, techniques, and procedures; maintenance procedures; and associated 
education, readiness training, and practical exercises for tactical, operational, peacetime, and 
joint and coalition training at the National Space Test and Training Range and National Space 
Test and Training Complex to enable joint EMSO. 
2.8.  Develop platforms and systems that operate in the EMS (i.e., electromagnetic S-D 
systems) using common architecture interfaces and protocols that result in the ability of 
systems, equipment, and devices using the electromagnetic spectrum to operate in their 
intended environments without causing or suffering unacceptable or unintentional degradation 
because of electromagnetic radiation or response. 
2.9.  Procure resilient electromagnetic S-D platforms and systems that can counter or indicate 
service degradation to the operator due to intentional interference (e.g., jamming) or 
unintentional interference (e.g., blue force electromagnetic interference, and atmospheric and 
space-based weather) and provide this information for electromagnetic battle management and 
other situational awareness capabilities. 
2.10.  Acquire each electromagnetic S-D platform or system’s data sufficient to characterize 
its employment in an electromagnetic operational environment to assess emerging threats to 
systems and determine impacts to DAF missions resulting from reallocation or reprioritized 
spectrum access. 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
5 
2.11.  Sustain readiness by developing and maintaining an EMSO force structure with the 
proper rank/grade and specialty allocations of military and civilian personnel, training and 
educating mission-ready professionals, regularly exercising wartime system capabilities, and 
equipping and maintaining an infrastructure capable of supporting high operations tempo 
levels. 
2.12.  Integrate Air Reserve Component strategic and operational EMSO capabilities to 
perform steady-state and surge operations. 
2.13.  Foster strong relationships with allies and partners to maximize the exchange of EMSO 
information in support of mutual interests. 
2.14.  Develop common architectures, systems, or procedures that permit electromagnetic S-D 
platforms’ or systems’ data to be used by other U.S. government and international partners, as 
appropriate, to facilitate U.S. and partner interoperability while minimizing the data’s risk of 
exploitation. 
2.15.  Comply with U.S. and host nation spectrum regulations and obtain applicable 
authorizations before operating electromagnetic S-D systems. 
2.16.  Identify and mitigate regulatory, technical, and operational spectrum supportability risks 
in accordance with DoDI 4650.01. 
2.17.  Use environmental intelligence of the atmospheric and space-based weather 
environment to optimize EMSO. 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) will: 
3.1.1.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C on all EMS superiority policy. 
3.1.2.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C on the administration of special 
access programs for EMSO and related all-domain capabilities. 
3.2.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (SAF/AQ) 
will: 
3.2.1.  Establish a focal point within AQ to address acquisition matters related to EMS 
superiority with consultation from Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space 
Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ) on space-related acquisitions. 
3.2.2.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support EMS working groups or 
decision-making bodies as defined in their respective charters. 
3.2.3.  With consultation from SAF/SQ on space-related considerations, serve as the OPR 
for the Science & Technology and Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation 
(RDT&E) aspects of EMS superiority capabilities, including providing direction, guidance, 
and supervision over all matters about the formulation, review, approval, and execution of 
plans, policies, and programs relative to research, development, production, and 
acquisition of EMSO programs. 
 
 
6 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
3.2.4.  With support from SAF/SQ on space-related programs, enable the delivery of 
EMSO capabilities in accordance with decisions made by the DAF Corporate Structure for 
the USAF and USSF, DoD, and Congress, to include management of funds allocated for 
acquisition programs within the RDT&E appropriation. 
3.2.5.  Create incentives for industry partners to provide actionable information on 
electromagnetic performance and control for their S-D systems.  Advocate for the 
necessary visibility of the DAF and DoD into the spectrum behavior of industry solutions, 
while respecting and protecting their essential proprietary information. 
3.2.6.  Be responsible for validating DAF EMSO programs comply with regulations and 
laws. 
3.3.  Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief Information Officer (SAF/CN) will: 
3.3.1.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. 
3.3.2.  Support EMS working groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their 
respective charters. 
3.3.3.  Review spectrum supportability risk assessments and provide recommendations 
when appropriate. 
3.3.4.  Provide representatives to the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee and its 
substructure. 
3.3.5.  Ensure spectrum management interests are represented on the Military Command, 
Control, Communications, and Computers Executive Board, its panels, and working 
groups. 
3.4.  Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) will: 
3.4.1.  Establish a focal point within International Affairs to address foreign military sales 
of United States (US) EW systems and other US S-D systems that provide foreign 
governments with a degree of EMS control. 
3.4.2.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.4.3.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L, SF/COO/S6C, Office of the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Space Policy and others as required on EW system export policy. 
3.4.4.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L, Analysis, Partnerships & Engagements (AF/A2/6A), 
Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2) and SF/COO/S6C on EMSO to 
develop foreign disclosure policy and guidance to support effective EMS-related 
information sharing and employment of EMSO with allies and partners. 
3.5.  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration (SAF/SQ) will: 
3.5.1.  Be responsible for global positioning system acquisition programs and processes, 
spectrum allocations and processes, spectrum planning and integration with positioning, 
navigation, and timing architectures, coordination with emitters/providers for radio-
frequency compatibility and interoperability, and spectrum protection concerning bands 
with positioning, navigation, and timing application. 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
7 
3.5.2.  As authorized, coordinate with the International Telecommunications Union for 
frequency deconfliction and orbital slot allocations consistent with DoDI 4650.01 and 
NTIA Redbook procedures. 
3.5.3.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.6.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, and Personnel and Services (AF/A1), Deputy Chief of 
Space Operations for Human Capital (SF/S1) will: 
3.6.1.  Establish a focal point within both AF/A1 and SF/S1 to address EMS Workforce 
and personnel matters related to EMS superiority. 
3.6.2.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C on the career field and management 
of EMS subject matter experts. 
3.7.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations (AF/A2/6) and Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence (SF/S2), 
will: 
3.7.1.  Establish a focal point within AF/A2/6 and SF/S2 to address intelligence matters 
related to EMS superiority and coordinate with Joint Electromagnetic Warfare Center, the 
National Air and Space Intelligence Center, and the National Space Intelligence Center as 
required. 
3.7.2.  Ensure AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C are informed of intelligence capability and 
capacity issues related to attaining and maintaining EMS superiority. 
3.7.3.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.8.  Director, Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority (AF/A2/6L) will: 
3.8.1.  Lead the USAF in obtaining and maintaining EMS superiority across air, space, and 
cyberspace domains through coordination across missions, core-functional, and cross-
functional capability areas. 
3.8.2.  Lead USAF guidance and oversight of EMS superiority doctrine, organization, 
training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, and policy issues. 
3.8.3.  Advise on doctrine and develop policy, guidance, strategy, capability development, 
and investment priorities to attain and maintain EMS superiority. 
3.8.4.  Ensure EMSO requirements and capabilities are integrated across the USAF. 
3.8.5.  Develop and oversee implementation of USAF EMS superiority policy and 
guidance. 
3.8.6.  With the support of the DAF EMS governance structure, ensure alignment of EMS 
superiority goals and objectives across USAF functional mission areas and cross-functional 
teams. 
3.8.7.  Oversee all USAF EMS-related training for the EMS subject matter expert career 
field, as well as general force training. 
8 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
3.8.8.  Serve as the staffing OPR for EMS-related documents that address EMSO, and other 
capabilities when necessary. 
3.8.9.  Manage the USAF EMS Professional Career Force (military and government 
civilians) concerning the performance of EMS-related activities in coordination with other 
career field managers. 
3.8.10.  Serve as the USAF EMSO Functional Manager for designated EMS 
capabilities/programs and advise career field managers for the EMSO-centric AF Specialty 
Code career fields, in accordance with DAFI 36-2670, Total Force Development. 
3.8.11.  Serve as an advocate for DAF EMS superiority equities within the Joint 
Capabilities Integration and Development System, DAF Corporate Structure, and DAF 
capabilities development processes. 
3.8.12.  Serve as the USAF OPR for EMS superiority Program Objective Memorandum 
submission through the DAF Corporate Process. 
3.8.13.  Coordinate all USAF programmatic actions related to EMS superiority with the 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs (AF/A8) or other panel chairs as appropriate 
and submit required changes through the DAF Corporate Structure, Office of the Secretary 
of Defense and Joint Staff, as required. 
3.8.14.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6 on the integration of EMSO activities into planning, 
execution, and assessment to enable information warfare. 
3.8.15.  Establish USAF working groups, as necessary, to address specific EMS superiority 
issues or topics. 
3.8.16.  Support USSTRATCOM in accomplishing its specific EMSO responsibilities as 
requested. 
3.9.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations, Chief, Partnerships and Engagements Division (AF/A2/6AE) will: 
3.9.1.  Develop intelligence disclosure policy and guidance in coordination with SAF/IA, 
AF/A2/6L, SF/S2 and SF/COO/S6C to support EMS-related intelligence sharing 
requirements with allies and partners. 
3.9.2.  Coordinate on SAF/IA, AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C requirements and proposals 
for policy related to export of EW systems and disclosure of other categories of classified 
military information. 
3.10.  Director, Cyber Operations and Spectrum Integration (SF/COO/S6C) will: 
3.10.1.  Lead the USSF in obtaining and maintaining EMS superiority across air, space, 
and cyberspace domains through coordination across missions, core-functional and cross-
functional capability areas. 
3.10.2.  Establish USSF working groups, as necessary, to address specific EMS superiority 
issues or topics. 
3.10.3.  Ensure EMSO requirements and capabilities are integrated across the FLDCOMs. 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
9 
3.10.4.  Develop and oversee implementation of USSF EMS superiority policy and 
guidance. 
3.10.5.  Ensure alignment of EMS superiority goals and objectives across USSF functional 
mission areas and cross-functional teams. 
3.10.6.  Serve as the USSF OPR for EMS superiority Program Objective Memorandum 
submission through the DAF Corporate Process. 
3.10.7.  Coordinate all USSF programmatic actions related to EMS superiority with the 
Chief Strategy and Resourcing Officer (SF/CSRO) or other panel chairs as appropriate and 
submit required changes through the DAF Corporate Structure, Office of the Secretary of 
Defense and Joint Staff, as required. 
3.10.8.  Manage the USSF EMS Professional Career Force concerning the performance of 
EMS-related activities in coordination with other career field managers. 
3.10.9.  Serve as the USSF EMS Superiority Functional Managers for designated EMS 
capabilities/programs and advise the career field managers for the EMSO-centric USSF 
Specialty Code career fields, in accordance with DAFI 36-2670. 
3.10.10.  Execute USSF acquisition spectrum management policy and interface with the 
USAF Spectrum Management Office (AF/A2/6LS). 
3.10.11.  Support the Space Development Agency and Space Rapid Capability Office as 
requested. 
3.10.12.  Support USSTRATCOM in accomplishing its specific EMSO responsibilities as 
requested. 
3.11.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) and Chief Operations Officer (SF/COO) 
will: 
3.11.1.  Provide subject matter expertise and coordination on EMS superiority issues 
related to DAF and combatant command operations and deployment and employment of 
electromagnetic warfare and with EMS-related systems. 
3.11.2.  Work with Air Education and Training Command and Space Training and 
Readiness Command to develop appropriate EMS superiority training and require all DAF 
EMS superiority staff, units, and career field/force personnel to complete EMS superiority 
training. 
3.11.3.  Develop and implement EMSO readiness metrics for all DAF combat capabilities 
that operate in the EMS. 
3.11.4.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.12.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7) and Chief Strategy and Resourcing 
Officer (SF/CSRO) will: 
3.12.1.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L, SF/COO/S6C, and the EW/EMS Capability 
Development Team on EMS superiority capability development issues. 
10 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
3.12.2.  Coordinate with Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Advanced Programs 
(AF/A2/6LZ) and SF/COO/S6C on EMS superiority requirements processes, documents, 
and issues. 
3.12.3.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.13.  Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs (AF/A8) and Chief Strategy and 
Resourcing Officer (SF/CSRO) will: 
3.13.1.  Establish and maintain EMS Superiority equities within existing Service 
programming panel structure to address planning and programmatic matters related to EMS 
superiority, and function as liaison with AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C.. 
3.13.2.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. 
3.13.3.  Support DAF EMS working groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their 
charters. 
3.13.4.  Ensure EMSO planning and programming are integrated across the MAJCOMs 
and FLDCOMs. 
3.14.  Director, Department of the Air Force Studies & Analysis (SAF/SA), and Space Force 
Analysis (SF/CTIO/S9) will: 
3.14.1.  Coordinate EMS superiority capability development issues related to modeling and 
simulation with AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C. 
3.14.2.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.15.  Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) and Space Force Test and Evaluation (SF/TE) 
will: 
3.15.1.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L, SF/COO/S6C, and other organizations on EMS 
superiority capability development and sustainment issues related to air and space test and 
evaluation. 
3.15.2.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.16.  All MAJCOMs and FLDCOMs will: 
3.16.1.  Establish a focal point within the MAJCOM and FLDCOM headquarters (HQ) to 
address matters related to EMS superiority and function as the MAJCOM and FLDCOM 
liaison with AF/A2/6L and SF/COO/S6C. 
3.16.2.  Participate in the DAF EMS governance structure. Support DAF EMS working 
groups or decision-making bodies as defined in their charters. 
3.17.  Air Combat Command will: 
3.17.1.  Establish a focal point within HQ Air Combat Command to address matters related 
to EMS superiority and function as the MAJCOM liaison with AF/A2/6L. 
3.17.2.  Support USAF EMS-related working groups or decision-making bodies as their 
charters define. 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
11 
3.17.3.  Lead EMS environment intelligence integration into EMS operations and 
activities. 
3.17.4.  Support integration of EMSO into the USAF Warfare Center’s academic training 
and exercises. 
3.17.5.  Develop, update, and maintain EMSO training course information in the Joint 
Training Course Database according to Joint Staff guidance. 
3.17.6.  Coordinate with the HQ Air Education and Training Command, HQ Air Combat 
Command, and Air National Guard schoolhouses to refine/modify, review, validate, and 
approve course objectives and education requirements. 
3.17.7.  Provide global recommended sourcing solutions and feasibility risk analyses as 
defined by Global Force Management Implementation Guidance, DAFI 10-401, 
Operations Planning and Execution, and Joint Staff directives supporting joint force 
provider responsibilities. 
3.17.8.  In coordination with appropriate functional authorities, ensure sufficiently 
proficient EMSO capabilities are available to Air Force forces and air operations 
center/operations center. 
3.17.9.  Coordinate testing and evaluation of emerging EMSO capabilities for operational 
forces, national agencies, and the acquisition community. 
3.17.10.  Develop EMSO tactics, techniques, and procedures for joint and USAF 
operational planners supporting current and future operations. 
3.18.  Space Operations Command will: 
3.18.1.  Establish a focal point within HQ Space Operations Command to address matters 
related to EMS superiority and function as the FLDCOM liaison with SF/COO/S6C. 
3.18.2.  Support USSF EMS-related working groups or decision-making bodies as their 
charters define. 
3.18.3.  Lead EMS environment intelligence integration into EMS operations and 
activities. 
3.18.4.  Support integration of EMSO into Space Warfighting Analysis Center’s academic 
analysis, modeling, wargaming, and experimentation. 
3.18.5.  Provide global recommended sourcing solutions and feasibility risk analyses as 
defined by Global Force Management Implementation Guidance, DAFI 10-401, and Joint 
Staff directives supporting joint force provider responsibilities. 
3.18.6.  In coordination with appropriate functional authorities, ensure sufficiently 
proficient EMSO capabilities are available for presentation to combatant command space 
components. 
3.18.7.  Develop EMSO tactics, techniques, and procedures for joint and USSF operational 
planners to support current and future operations. 
3.19.  Air Education and Training Command will: 
3.19.1.  Develop and execute initial EMSO training and education. 
12 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
3.19.2.  Develop and execute EMSO training and education throughout professional 
military education. 
3.19.3.  Participate in, and chair when appropriate, utilization and training workshops and 
USAF Training Planning Team when addressing EMSO training requirements. 
3.20.  Space Training and Readiness Command will: 
3.20.1.  Participate in and chair, when appropriate, utilization and training workshops and 
USSF Training Planning Team when addressing EMSO training requirements. 
3.20.2.  Develop, update, and maintain EMSO training course information in the Joint 
Training Course Database according to Joint Staff guidance with support from HQ USSF 
and FLDCOMs. 
3.20.3.  Develop and execute EMSO training and education throughout professional 
military education. 
3.20.4.  Coordinate with the other FLDCOMs and the career field managers on Space 
Training and Readiness Command -provided EMSO training to solicit input to 
refine/modify, review, validate, and approve course objectives and training/education 
requirements. 
3.20.5.  Coordinate testing and evaluation of emerging EMSO capabilities for operational 
forces, national agencies, and the acquisition community. 
3.20.6.  Develop and maintain USSF EMSO doctrine. 
3.21.  Air Force Materiel Command will: 
3.21.1.  Establish a focal point within HQ Air Force Material Command to address matters 
related to EMS superiority and function as the MAJCOM liaison with AF/A2/6L. 
3.21.2.  Support USAF EMS-related working groups or decision-making bodies as their 
charters define. 
3.21.3.  Develop acquisition guidance for EMSO systems and include expectations for 
industry partners to give USAF operators the necessary privileges in EMSO solutions, 
while respecting and protecting any essential proprietary information of industry-provided 
systems. 
3.21.4.  Acquire, develop, and provide the subject matter expertise necessary to assist the 
Air Force Materiel Command centers (specifically Air Force Life Cycle Management 
Center and Air Force Research Laboratory), the Program Management Office and Air 
Force forces and air operations center/operations center to explore alternative 
developmental courses of action for new capabilities, as well as ensure integration of 
EMSO into weapon systems’ RDT&E. 
3.21.5.  Utilize common architectures, standard interfaces, and protocols in the acquisition 
of EMS S-D systems to enable interoperability and improve technology insertion. 
3.21.6.  Organize, train, and equip acquisition forces to provide EMSO subject matter 
experts for planning, development, and sustainment of EMSO capabilities in support of 
operations and planning to combatant and component commanders, as required. 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
13 
3.21.7.  Ensure EMSO mid-term and long-term research and technology shortfall issues 
are adequately addressed through the Air Force Research Laboratory. 
3.21.8.  Maintain and communicate a list of spectrum management interests, priorities, 
trends, and capability gaps to inform Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOMs, and Space 
Systems Command of all relevant EMSO Science and Technology (S&T) and Research, 
Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E) efforts. 
3.21.9.  Ensure protection of human subjects in all EMS research by conducting all such 
activities through the Air Force Research Laboratory.  Acquisition plans for such activities 
will include appropriate resourcing for human research protection oversight in accordance 
with DoDI 3216.02. Protection of Human Subjects and Adherence to Ethical Standards in 
DoD Conducted and Supported Research. 
3.22.  Space Systems Command and Space Development Agency will: 
3.22.1.  Develop acquisition guidance for EMSO systems and include expectations for 
industry partners to give USSF operators the necessary privileges in EMSO solutions, 
while respecting and protecting any essential proprietary information of industry-provided 
systems. 
3.22.2.  Utilize common architectures, standard interfaces, and protocols in the acquisition 
of EMS S-D systems to enable interoperability and improve technology insertion. 
3.22.3.  Provide the subject matter expertise necessary to assist the Space Systems 
Command Program Executive Officer (PEOs) to explore alternative developmental 
courses of action for new capabilities, as well as ensure integration of EMSO into weapon 
systems’ RDT&E. 
3.22.4.  Ensure EMSO mid-term and long-term research and technology shortfall issues 
are adequately addressed to the Chief Technology and Innovation Officer. 
3.22.5.  Inform USSF and FLDCOMs of all relevant EMSO S&T and RDT&E efforts to 
Chief Technology and Innovation Officer/Science, Technology and Research 
(CTIO/STR). 
3.23.  ANG will: 
3.23.1.  Coordinate EMSO education and training with HQ Air Combat Command, HQ 
Air Education and Training Command, and Air Reserve Component to support EMSO 
mission readiness requirements defined by DAF. 
3.23.2.  Comply with USAF MAJCOM responsibilities as defined in paragraph 3.16 
through paragraph 3.16.2. 
3.23.3.  Comply with USAF MAJCOM, direct reporting unit, and field operation agency 
responsibilities as defined in paragraph 3.24 through paragraph 3.24.7. 
3.24.  All USAF MAJCOMs, Direct Reporting Units, and Field Operating Agencies will: 
3.24.1.  Coordinate with AF/A2/6L to develop new EMSO initiatives into joint, coalition 
and USAF experimentation and acquisition activities. 
14 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
3.24.2.  Appoint MAJCOM functional managers and program managers for EMSO. Direct 
Reporting Units and Field Operating Agencies are only required to appoint program 
managers. 
3.24.3.  Assist Headquarters Air Force in performing their doctrine, organization, training, 
materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, and policy capability development 
responsibilities, as required. 
3.24.4.  Organize, train, and equip EMSO career field/forces and capabilities to include 
readiness assessment and evaluation functions and leading integration of EMSO into all 
mission areas. 
3.24.5.  Integrate EMSO into the strategic planning process and assist with developing 
EMSO guidance and enabling concepts. 
3.24.6.  As appropriate assist combatant commands, component-MAJCOMs/component-
numbered air forces, or air operation centers with synchronizing and deconflicting EMSO 
effects with other respective functional/geographical MAJCOMs. 
3.24.7.  Coordinate EMSO with AF/A3 on all exercise and training requirements. 
3.25.  All USSF FLDCOMs, Direct Reporting Units, and Field Operating Agencies will: 
3.25.1.  Coordinate with SF/COO/S6C to develop new EMSO initiatives into joint, 
coalition and USSF experimentation and acquisition activities. 
3.25.2.  Appoint FLDCOMs functional managers and program managers for EMSO. 
Direct Reporting Units and Field Operating Agencies are only required to appoint program 
managers. 
3.25.3.  Organize, train, and equip EMSO career field/forces and capabilities to include 
readiness assessment and evaluation functions and leading integration of EMSO into all 
mission areas. 
3.25.4.  Integrate EMSO into the strategic planning process and assist with developing 
EMSO guidance and enabling concepts. 
3.25.5.  As appropriate assist combatant commands, component space forces or air 
operation centers with synchronizing and deconflicting EMSO effects. 
3.25.6.  Coordinate EMSO with SF/COO on all exercise and training requirements. 
 
FRANK KENDALL 
Secretary of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
15 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
DoDD 3610.01, Electromagnetic Spectrum Enterprise Policy, 04 September 2020 
DoDI 3216.02, Protection of Human Subjects and Adherence to Ethical Standards in DoD-
Conducted and -Supported Research, 29 June 2022 
DoDI 3222.03, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program, 25 August 2014 
DoDD 3222.04, Electronic Warfare Policy, 26 March 2014 
DoDI 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic 
Spectrum, 09 January 2009 
DoDI 8420.02, DoD Satellite Communications, 03 August 2023 
JP 3-0, Joint Operations, 18 June 2022 
JP 3-09, Joint Fire Support, 10 April 2019 
JP 3-85, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations, May 2020 
HAFMD 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Energy), 
10 July 2014 (Note: Air Force Doctrine can be found at https://doctrine.af.mil/) 
AFDP 3-13, Information in Air Force Operations, 1 February 2023 
DAFPD 10-9, Lead Command/Lead Agent Designation and Responsibilities for United States 
Air Force Weapon Systems, Non-Weapon Systems, And Activities, 25 May 2021 
DAFPD 13-6, Space Policy, 05 December 2023 
DAFPD 17-2, Cyberspace, 27 October 2020 
AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 07 August 2018 
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 03 September 2019 
AFPD 91-4, Directed Energy System Safety, 17 January 2020 
DAFI 10-401, Operations Planning and Execution, 13 January 2021 
DAFI 36-2670, Total Force Development, 25 June 2020 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Manual of Regulations & Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management, National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration, January 2021 Edition - January 2023 
Revision 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
16 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFPD—Air Force Mission Directive 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
DAFPD—Department of the Air Force Policy Directive 
DoD—Department of Defense 
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive 
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction 
EM—Electromagnetic 
EMS—Electromagnetic Spectrum 
EMSO—electromagnetic spectrum operations 
EW—electromagnetic warfare 
E3—Electromagnetic Environmental Effects 
HAFMD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 
RDT&E—Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation 
S-D—spectrum-dependent 
S&T—science and technology 
U.S.—United States 
USAF—United States Air Force 
USSF—United States Space Force 
Office Symbols 
AF/A1—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services 
AF/A2/6—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance 
and Cyber Effects 
AF/A2/6A—Analysis, Partnerships & Engagements 
AF/A2/6AE—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance and Cyber 
Effects Operations, Chief, Partnerships and Engagements Division 
AF/A2/6L—Director, Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority 
AF/A2/6LS—Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Air Force Spectrum Management Office 
AF/A2/6LZ—Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Advanced Programs 
AF/A3—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
17 
AF/A5/7—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force Futures 
AF/A8—Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs 
AF/TE—Director of Test and Evaluation 
CTIO/STR—Chief Technology and Innovation Officer/Science, Technology and Research 
FLDCOM—Field Command 
HQ—Headquarters 
MAJCOM—Major Command 
OPR—The office of primary responsibility 
SAF/AA—Secretary of the Air Force Administrative Assistant 
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics 
SAF/CN—Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief Information Officer 
SAF/IA—Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force, International Affairs 
SAF/SA—Director, Department of the Air Force Studies & Analysis 
SAF/SQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration 
SF/COO—Chief Operations Officer 
SF/COO/S6C—Director, Cyber Operations and Spectrum Integration 
SF/CSRO—Chief Strategy and Resourcing Officer 
SF/CTIO/S9—Space Force Analysis 
SF/S1—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital 
SF/S2—Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Intelligence 
USSTRATCOM—U.S. Strategic Command 
Terms 
Cyberspace Operations—The employment of cyberspace capabilities whose primary purpose is 
to achieve objectives in or through cyberspace. (JP 3-0) 
Defensive Space Operations—Actions taken to preserve friendly freedom of action in space. 
Directed Energy—An umbrella term covering technologies that relate to the production of a beam 
of concentrated electromagnetic energy or atomic or subatomic particles. See also directed-energy 
weapon effects on a target. (JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Attack—Division of electromagnetic warfare involving the use of 
electromagnetic energy, directed energy, or anti-radiation weapons to attack personnel, facilities, 
or equipment with the intent of degrading, neutralizing, or destroying enemy combat capability 
and is considered a form of fires. See also electromagnetic warfare. (JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Battle Management—The dynamic monitoring, assessing, planning, and 
directing of operations in the electromagnetic spectrum in support of the commander’s concept of 
operation. (JP 3-85) 
18 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
Electromagnetic Environment—The resulting product of the power and time distribution, in 
various frequency ranges, of the radiated or conducted electromagnetic emission levels 
encountered by a military force, system, or platform when performing its assigned mission in its 
intended operational environment. (JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Interference—Any electromagnetic disturbance, induced intentionally or 
unintentionally, that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits the effective performance 
of electromagnetic spectrum-dependent systems and electrical equipment. (JP3-85) 
Electromagnetic Operational Environment—A composite of the actual and potential 
electromagnetic energy radiation, conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the 
employment of capabilities and the decisions of the commander. It includes the existing 
background radiation (i.e., electromagnetic environment) as well as the friendly, neutral, 
adversary, and enemy electromagnetic systems able to radiate within the electromagnetic area of 
influence. This includes systems currently radiating or receiving, or those that may radiate, that 
can potentially affect joint operations. 
Electromagnetic Protection—Division of electromagnetic warfare involving actions taken to 
protect personnel, facilities, and equipment from any effects of friendly or enemy use of the EMS 
that degrade, neutralize, or destroy friendly combat capability. See also electromagnetic warfare. 
(JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Spectrum (EMS)—The range of all types of electromagnetic radiation. 
(National Aeronautics and Space Administration) 
Electromagnetic Spectrum-Dependent Systems—All electronic systems, subsystems, devices, 
and equipment that depend on the use of the spectrum to properly accomplish their functions. 
(DoDD 3610.01) 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Management—The operational, engineering, and administrative 
procedures to plan and coordinate operations within the electromagnetic operational environment. 
(JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations—Coordinated military actions to exploit, attack, protect, 
and manage the electromagnetic environment. (JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Professional—A member of the EMS Workforce who has achieved 
and maintained a demonstrated standard of expertise in EMS-related core skills. 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority—That degree of control in the electromagnetic spectrum 
that permits the conduct of operations superiority at a given time and place without prohibitive 
interference while affecting a threat’s ability to do the same. 
Electromagnetic Support—Division of electromagnetic warfare involving actions tasked by, or 
under direct control of, an operational commander to search for, intercept, identify, and locate or 
localize sources of intentional and unintentional radiated electromagnetic energy for immediate 
threat recognition, targeting, planning and conduct of future operations. See also electromagnetic 
warfare. (JP 3-85) 
 
 
DAFPD10-15  25 NOVEMBER 2024 
19 
Electromagnetic Warfare—Military action involving the use of electromagnetic and directed 
energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy. (JP 3-85) 
Electromagnetic Spectrum Workforce—The totality of personnel required to staff the EMS 
Enterprise. 
Fires—The use of weapon systems or other actions to create specific lethal or nonlethal effects on 
a target. (JP 3-09) 
Information Warfare—The AF term for the military capabilities employed in and through the 
information environment to deliberately affect adversary human and system behavior and to 
preserve friendly freedom of action during cooperation, competition, and conflict (AFDP 3-13). 
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—That office ensures that training is valid and current, 
including directly supporting HQ Air Force with information operations, military deception, 
military information support operations, and operational security efforts. 
 
