BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-9 
25 MAY 2021 
Operations 
LEAD COMMAND/LEAD AGENT 
DESIGNATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
FOR UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
WEAPON SYSTEMS, NON-WEAPON 
SYSTEMS, AND ACTIVITIES 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A8XP 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-9, 8 March 2007 
Certified by: AF/A8  
(Lt Gen David S. Nahom) 
Pages: 8 
 
 
This publication implements Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Defense 
Acquisition System.  This Department of the Air Force Policy Directive establishes policy for lead 
command/lead agent designation and their responsibilities for United States Air Force weapon 
systems, non-weapon systems, and activities.  This publication applies to all uniformed members 
and civilian employees of all components of the Department of the Air Force who exercise either 
lead command or using command responsibilities for United States Air Force weapons systems, 
non-weapons systems, and activities.  This directive also applies to all contractors and other 
organizations and individuals to the extent required by the applicable contract, binding agreement 
or obligation with the Department of the Air Force.  This publication does not apply to the United 
States Space Force.  This publication may not be supplemented.  Refer recommended changes and 
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using Air Force Form 847, 
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through the appropriate functional chain of 
command.  Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are 
maintained in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Information Management Systems Records Disposition Schedule which is located in the Air Force 
Records Information Management System. 
2 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been substantially revised.  Previous versions of this publication were limited 
to lead command designations and responsibilities for weapon systems/activities.  This publication 
has been updated to add designations and definitions for non-weapon systems and activities.  The 
“system” refers to both weapon systems and non-weapon systems. 
 
 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
3 
1.  Overview.  This publication establishes a basis for designating a lead command or lead agent 
when one or more organizations possesses or is responsible for a portion of a United States Air 
Force weapon system, non-weapon system, or activity.  A lead command or lead agent is an 
organization designated by the Secretary of the Air Force or delegated representative to provide 
input and advocacy for developing and maintaining assigned systems and activities under the 
oversight of Headquarters Air Force (HAF). 
1.1.  The construct of weapon systems, non-weapon systems, and activities, is inclusive of all 
the various items requiring a lead and advocate in the Department of the Air Force portfolio.  
Weapon systems may include, but are not limited to, aircraft, air operations centers, munitions, 
software, and special warfare capabilities.  Non-weapon systems include other directed, funded 
efforts or initiatives that provide materiel, information system, or service capability.  Activities 
are all other directed, funded efforts or initiatives that are not weapon systems or non-weapon 
systems.  For planning and programming considerations in the Strategy, Planning, 
Programming, Budgeting, & Execution (SPPBE) process, there is no inherent benefit for an 
item’s categorization between weapon system, non-weapon system, or activity. 
1.2.  “Lead command” is used for a major command (MAJCOM) whereas ”lead agent” is used 
for a HAF two-letter, HAF field operating agency (FOA), HAF direct reporting unit (DRU), 
or other organization below the MAJCOM level when designated lead. Department of the Air 
Force policies referencing or assigning responsibilities to a lead command or lead agent should 
consider the terms synonymous.  Lead designation establishes responsibility for advocacy for 
systems and activities, and clarifies responsibilities for other stakeholders. Stakeholders are 
lead commands/lead agents, using commands, implementing commands and other 
organizations that possess or are responsible for a portion of a weapon system, non-weapon 
system, or activity.  Lead command/lead agent designations are not a replacement for any 
component of the acquisition program execution. 
2.  Policy.  Within the United States Air Force, all MAJCOMs, FOAs/DRUs, and the Air Force 
Reserve, must support the United States Air Force’s effort to maintain configuration control, 
commonality, and capability synchronization for interoperability within total force operations.  
Lead commands for systems and activities operated by USAF MAJCOMs, FOAs/DRUs, and the 
Air Force Reserve must prioritize validated requirements, resources, and schedules within a total 
force context. Proactive and thorough communication between lead commands and using 
commands is paramount in support of these valuable weapon systems/activities.  Lead 
commands/lead agents will provide input and advocacy and develop requirements for weapon 
systems, non-weapon systems, and activities under the oversight of the Deputy Chief of Staff, Air 
Force Futures (AF/A5/7) for design and requirements and the Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and 
Programs (AF/A8), for planning and programming in the United States Air Force.  Among 
stakeholders, leads have final adjudication authority for staffing requirements and clarifying 
responsibilities.  Stakeholders may readdress final staffing requirements and clarification of 
responsibilities to the lead command if there is a compelling negative operational impact. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Secretary of the Air Force. The Secretary of the Air Force, as head of the Department of 
the Air Force, retains ultimate authority on the designation of lead commands and lead agents.  
The authority to approve new designations and change existing designations is known as the 
“designation authority.” The Secretary of the Air Force delegates this authority directly to the 
Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs (AF/A8) for the United States Air Force.  AF/A8 
may not re-delegate designation authority without approval from the Secretary of the Air 
Force. 
3.2.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs (AF/A8).  AF/A8 is responsible for Air Force-
wide activities associated with planning and programming resource allocation.  AF/A8 will 
provide oversight of lead command/lead agent planning and programming inputs for the 
United States Air Force in the SPPBE process, ensuring affordability is maintained at the 
enterprise level. AF/A8 is responsible and accountable to the Secretary of the Air Force as the 
delegated authority for designating lead commands and lead agents in the United States Air 
Force.  Designation requests will be submitted to the Director of Programs (AF/A8P) for 
coordination.  AF/A8P will adjudicate issues across the Air Staff, SAF/AA, and major 
commands during coordination and recommend a lead for AF/A8 approval.  AF/A8 will assign 
lead command/lead agent designations for new systems and activities as early as possible, but 
no later than Milestone A for traditional acquisition programs or equivalent “milestones” for 
other non-traditional acquisition pathways as applicable.  AF/A8P will maintain a table of 
approved lead command/lead agent designations and publish with changes as new or updated 
designations are made.  The most current version of the table can be accessed at 
https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/10940/a8pe/sitepages/home.aspx 
3.3.  Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force Futures (AF/A5/7).  AF/A5/7 is responsible for Air 
Force-wide activities associated with Air Force strategy development, future force design, 
capability development guidance, and operational capability requirements.  AF/A5/7 will 
provide oversight of lead command/lead agent inputs to strategy, future force design, capability 
development guidance, and operational capability requirements in the SPPBE process for the 
United States Air Force. 
3.4.  Lead Command/Lead Agents.  Leads will develop requirements in accordance with 
design products from Air Force Futures  (AF/A5A) and will be defined and prioritized to 
develop and maintain a force structure that balances complementary capabilities and 
affordability.  Inputs will be provided to Air Staff functional entities or SAF/AA as provided 
in the table of approved lead command/lead agent designations, to ensure equitable 
consideration through the SPPBE and capability development requirements processes.  
Stakeholders will support the development of these inputs and advocate through the lead for 
all requirements.  Inputs for planning and programming will be provided to the appropriate 
panel for adjudication and submission to the SPPBE process. 
 
 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
5 
3.4.1.  Leads will work with program managers to develop programmatic, technical and 
contractual requirements; establish contracts and infrastructure to achieve operational 
requirements; and provide life cycle management as applicable.  This includes all Doctrine, 
Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and 
Policy (DOTMLPF-P) requirements.  Requirements may include fielding and “beddown” 
activities.  Beddown is the allocation of systems/activities to operational locations.  
Beddown activities include the provision of facilities for troops and any support to create 
a platform for the projection of force. This includes any manpower, construction, 
infrastructure modification, new training systems/activities and equipment, environmental 
protection, operations and maintenance, and support systems/activities (e.g., software, 
cyber related risks and vulnerabilities, force structure, training simulators, or capabilities).  
In addition to fielding and beddown activities, this also includes any capabilities-based 
planning, modernization, sustainment, follow-on operational test and evaluation, and 
unique logistics requirements. 
3.4.2.  For beddown of new weapon systems/activities, lead commands/lead agents, in 
conjunction with stakeholders, will develop, as necessary, program plans, system training 
plans, organizational and force presentation constructs, readiness reporting products, and 
memoranda of understanding; and will conduct site activation task force activities, ensure 
National Environmental Policy Act compliance, and charter a general officer steering 
group. 
3.4.3.  Lead commands for the United States Air Force will also coordinate with Air Force 
Research Laboratory and Air Force Futures to recommend science and technology  
maturation and development planning efforts that are needed in order to modernize their 
systems. 
3.4.4.  Lead commands/agents shall develop implementation strategies and procedures 
tailored to their systems or activities .  Requirements will be staffed among stakeholders to 
de-conflict anomalies and maintain specific interoperability, commonality, and 
configuration control, as applicable. Leads will coordinate with implementing commands 
and any other necessary functions (e.g., system program manager, system program office, 
contracting agency) to establish and sustain life cycle management processes for their 
respective systems and activities. 
3.4.5.  Leads shall develop and maintain system-specific United States Air Force, joint or 
multi-Service publications, tactics, techniques, and procedures and identify minimum 
essential systems/activities listing items as required in accordance with applicable 
Department of Defense policy.  Stakeholders will abide by lead command/lead agent 
weapons system-specific published guidance (e.g., mission design series-specific addenda 
and minimum essential system listings). 
3.4.6.  Lead commands/agents are responsible for the daily management and execution of 
assigned systems and activities.  Leads have the final adjudication authority for staffing 
requirements with stakeholders.  Leads may develop, sign, and distribute agreements to 
execute the responsibilities enumerated in this publication.  This includes any applicable 
standards, business tasks, and formal training requirements for the fielding, operation, 
support, maintenance, configuration control, and sustainment of the system or activity. 
6 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
3.4.7.  Lead commands will coordinate with stakeholders to advocate for the sustainment 
of weapon systems/activities to ensure sustainment requirements associated with weapon 
systems/activities receive comprehensive and equitable consideration in the planning, 
programming, and budget execution of resources to sustain weapon systems/activities 
under Centralized Asset Management. 
3.5.  Stakeholders.  Stakeholders will comply with U.S. laws, policies, and regulations 
requiring adherence to international agreements to include arms control agreements and 
regimes, and required law of war legal reviews, arrangements, etc.  Stakeholders will advocate 
for sustainment and modernization requirements through the lead.  Throughout the SPPBE 
process, stakeholders will provide programming and planning input to the lead for subsequent 
input to the appropriate panel for hardware and software modifications and unique system 
requirements for the United States Air Force.  Inputs for planning and programming will be 
provided to the appropriate panel for adjudication and submission to the appropriate 
governance structure for the Service.  The lead command/lead agent, system program manager, 
and system operator must approve modifications before they become permanent by submitting 
an AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal, consistent with AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life 
Cycle Management.  Stakeholders may issue lead command/lead agent weapons system-
specific published guidance prescribing their own specific requirements, if necessary.  
Stakeholder-published guidance, when required for unique mission considerations, may not be 
less restrictive than that prescribed in this policy directive or in other applicable superior 
guidance. 
 
JOHN P. ROTH 
Acting Secretary of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
7 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
Air Force Instruction 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 30 June 2020 
Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 
March 2020 
Department of the Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management 1 
December 2015 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
AF Form 1067b, Modification Proposal 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AF/A5/7—Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force Futures 
AF/A5A—Air Force Futures 
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff, Plans and Programs 
AF/A8P—Director of Programs 
AFI—Air Force Instruction 
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory 
DOTMLPF-P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, 
Personnel, Facilities and Policy 
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit 
FOA—Field Operating Agency 
HAF—Headquarters Air Force 
SPPBE—Strategic Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution 
TMRR—Technology Maturation & Risk Reduction 
Terms 
Activity—A directed, funded effort or initiative that is not a weapon system or non-weapon 
system. It may include a specific task, mission, action, or collection of actions. Activities may be 
assigned through directive policy and in accordance with an organization’s Mission Directive and 
responsibilities. Activities may be expressed in one or more resource allocation groups in the 
accomplishment of a definitive objective or plan. 
8 
DAFPD10-9  25 MAY 2021 
Implementing Command—Implementing commands provide the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, 
Program Executive Officers, program managers, major command Commanders, support for 
requirements formulation and phasing, continuous capability and technology planning, and 
development of acquisition and product support strategies. Implementing commands collaborate 
with lead commands and program managers; they collect, validate, and maintain current 
requirements, priorities and funding data by system, for all elements of depot activation; and they 
report data to the Air Staff or SAF/AA as applicable upon request. Implementing commands 
establish a central repository for depot activation requirements data, to include associated rationale 
and impacts. 
Lead Command/Lead Agent—Designated major command, field command, Air Staff two-letter, 
field operating agency subordinate to the Air Staff, direct reporting unit, SAF/AA, or other 
organization leader providing input and advocacy for developing and maintaining assigned 
weapon systems, non-weapon systems, and activities during their life cycle. 
Milestone A—Milestone A is a Milestone Decision Authority-led review at the end of the Materiel 
Solutions Analysis Phase in the Defense Acquisition Process. Its purposes are to make a 
recommendation or seek approval to enter/approve entry into the Technology Maturation & Risk 
Reduction (TMRR) phase. Approve the program acquisition strategy, and release the final request 
for proposals for TMRR activates. 
Non-Weapon System—A directed, funded effort or initiative that provides a materiel, information 
system, or service capability, that is not explicitly designed or primarily employed with the intent 
to inflict bodily harm, death or damage to property, in response to an approved need. It may be 
expressed in one or more resource allocation groups in the accomplishment of a definite objective 
or plan. 
Stakeholders—Stakeholders are lead commands/lead agents, using commands, implementing 
commands, and other organizations that possess or are responsible for a portion of a weapon 
systems, non-weapon system, or activity. 
Using Command—A command, agency or unit identified in relation to an assigned weapon 
system, non-weapon system, or activity. 
Weapon System—A combination of one or more weapons with all related equipment, materials, 
services, personnel, and means of delivery and deployment (if applicable) required for self-
sufficiency. 
 
