BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-27 
15 DECEMBER 2022 
Operations 
CIVIL AIR PATROL 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3OA 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Major General Charles S. Corcoran) 
Senior Coordinator USSF 
(SF/COO, Bruce Hollywood, SES)
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-27, 2 July 2018 
Pages: 5 
 
 
This Department of the Air Force Policy Directive implements Title 10, United States Code 
Chapter 959, Civil Air Patrol, in conjunction with Title 36 United States Code Chapter 403, Civil 
Air Patrol.  It provides Department of the Air Force (DAF) policy on the utilization of, and support 
to, the Civil Air Patrol (CAP), a federally supported, congressionally chartered non-profit 
corporation that acts as the auxiliary of the United States Air Force when its services are used by 
any department or agency in any branch of the Federal Government and when performing 
designated Air Force-assigned missions and programs.  This publication applies to all civilian 
employees and uniformed members of the Regular Air Force, the Air Force Reserve, the Air 
National Guard, the United States Space Force, and the CAP when conducting missions as the 
official Air Force Auxiliary, as well as personnel with a contractual obligation to abide by the 
terms of DAF issuances.  This DAFPD may not be supplemented.  Refer recommended changes 
and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the DAF Form 
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route DAF Forms 847 from the field through 
the appropriate functional chain of command.  Ensure all records generated as a result of processes 
prescribed in this publication adhere to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and 
Information Governance Program, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records 
Disposition Schedule which is located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. 
2 
DAFPD10-27  15 DECEMBER 2022 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This document has been revised and needs to be reviewed in its entirety.  Major changes include 
updating the applicability to include the United States Space Force, correcting the Title 10 
references, and reorganizing the material for clarity. 
 
 
DAFPD10-27  15 DECEMBER 2022 
3 
1.  Civil Air Patrol Resources and Purpose.  The DAF furnishes equipment, supplies, 
appropriated funds, personnel, and other resources necessary to enable CAP to accomplish its 
authorized and assigned missions and programs.  CAP uses federal resources to accomplish Air 
Force-assigned missions, and to accomplish certain corporate activities, including: 
1.1.  Assisting the DAF in fulfilling its non-combat programs and missions. 
1.2.  Providing assistance requested by federal, state or local governmental agencies to perform 
disaster relief missions and activities, other emergency and non-emergency public purpose 
missions and activities. 
1.3.  Encouraging and aiding United States citizens in contributing to the development of 
aviation and sustainment of air supremacy; and to encourage and develop by example the 
voluntary contribution of private citizens to the public welfare. 
1.4.  Providing aviation education and training. 
1.5.  Encouraging and fostering civil aviation in local communities. 
1.6.  Providing an organization of private citizens with adequate facilities to assist in meeting 
local and national emergencies. 
2.  Policy.  It is DAF policy that: 
2.1.  Considerations for Employment of Civil Air Patrol.  Participation by CAP in Air 
Force-assigned missions is strictly voluntary.  By law, CAP is the auxiliary of the Air Force 
when its services are used by any department or agency in any branch of the Federal 
Government.  Additionally, when performing approved missions as the Air Force Auxiliary, 
CAP members serve as Airmen and are integrated into the United States Air Force Total Force 
alongside Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve members. 
2.2.  Air Force-Assigned Missions.  The DAF may use the services of the CAP to fulfill non-
combat programs and missions, which are conducted by the CAP in its Air Force Auxiliary 
status.  Air Force-assigned missions are missions that have been assigned by the Secretary of 
the Air Force, or delegate (see paragraph 3.2).  CAP activities not approved for Air Force 
Auxiliary status are conducted in its corporate status. 
2.3.  Cooperative Agreement between the Department of the Air Force and Civil Air 
Patrol.  The DAF must use a Cooperative Agreement to define the overall working 
relationship between the DAF and CAP and to facilitate the transfer of federal resources to 
CAP.  The Cooperative Agreement must comply with applicable provisions of Title 2, Code 
of Federal Regulations Part 1104, Implementation of Governmentwide Guidance for Grants 
and Cooperative Agreements; 2 CFR Part 1120, Award Format for DoD Grants and 
Cooperative Agreements; and 2 CFR Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost 
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.  At a minimum, the Cooperative 
Agreement will address the programmatic requirements and the responsibilities of each 
organization involved in accomplishing CAP objectives and support. 
 
 
4 
DAFPD10-27  15 DECEMBER 2022 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) 
is responsible for providing strategic guidance, direction, and oversight of CAP, as well as 
assistance and appointments to the CAP Board of Governors.  This authority can be further re-
delegated. 
3.1.1.  The Board of Governors is the governing body of CAP, in accordance with 10 USC 
§ 9497. 
3.1.2.  The Board of Governors is responsible for the effective, efficient, and proper 
management and fiduciary oversight of the CAP. 
3.2.  The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (AF/A3) is responsible for policy on Air Force 
Auxiliary integration, requirements, and DAF support to CAP.  The AF/A3 is delegated the 10 
USC § 9497 authority to approve Air Force-assigned mission, to include missions outside the 
continental United States in Alaska, Hawaii, and United States territories and possessions.  
This authority can be further re-delegated. 
3.3.  Air Combat Command is the principal Major Command responsible for resource 
advocacy and oversight of DAF support to CAP. 
3.4.  Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA): 
3.4.1.  Acts as the DAF office with primary responsibility for advising, investigating, and 
adjudicating administrative tort claims related to aviation mishaps that arise from CAP’s 
performance of Air Force-assigned missions. 
3.4.2.  Assists the United States Department of Justice with litigation arising out of the 
same issues described in paragraph 3.5. 
3.4.3.  Advises AF/A3 on the legal authority to employ CAP on Air Force-assigned 
missions. 
3.4.4.  Coordinates with SAF/GC on new issues and major changes such as those 
associated with aircraft status, foreign clearance, and civil aviation issues. 
3.5.  The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) provides safety program support, guidance, 
analysis, and training to assist CAP-USAF in management of CAP’s preparation and conduct 
of Air Force-assigned missions. 
 
FRANK KENDALL 
Secretary of the Air Force 
DAFPD10-27  15 DECEMBER 2022 
5 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
10 USC Chapter 959, Civil Air Patrol  
36 USC Chapter 403, Civil Air Patrol  
2 CFR Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, And Audit Requirements 
for Federal Awards 
2 CFR Part 1104, Implementation of Governmentwide Guidance For Grants And Cooperative 
Agreements 
2 CFR Part 1120, Award Format For DoD Grants and Cooperative Agreements 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 28 July 2021 
Prescribed Forms 
None 
Adopted Forms 
DAF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
CAP—Civil Air Patrol 
DAF—Department of the Air Force 
AF/A3—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations 
AF/A3OA—Air Force Operations Group, Civil Support Division  
AF/JA—Office of The Judge Advocate General 
AF/SE—The Air Force Chief of Safety 
SAF/MR—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs 
SF/COO—Space Force Chief Operations Officer 
 
