BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY  
OF THE AIR FORCE 
 
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 
POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-35 
5 JANUARY 2021 
Operations 
AIR FORCE SPECIAL WARFARE 
COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY 
 
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at 
www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering 
RELEASABILITY:  There are no releasability restrictions on this publication 
 
 
OPR: AF/A3 
 
Supersedes: 
AFPD10-35, 5 June 2017; 
                        AFPD16-12, 1 July 1998 
Certified by: AF/A3  
(Lieutenant General Joseph T. Guastella, Jr.) 
Pages: 4 
 
 
This policy is consistent with Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-54, Deputy Chief of 
Staff, Operations. It establishes overarching policy for the Air Force Special Warfare 
(AFSPECWAR) community, describes AFSPECWAR capabilities, and identifies responsibilities 
for organizing, training, and equipping AFSPECWAR. It applies to individuals at all levels, 
including Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and United States Space 
Force. Ensure all records generated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication adhere 
to Air Force Instruction 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 
and are disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, which is 
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended changes 
and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the AF Form 
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field 
through the appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may not be 
supplemented. 
SUMMARY OF CHANGES 
This publication has been completely revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. Major 
changes include: paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, which have been updated to incorporate 
AFSPECWAR terminology. References updated to include latest source information. 
 
 
2 
DAFPD10-35  5 JANUARY 2021 
1.  Overview.  AFSPECWAR is the Department of the Air Force’s offensive ground force that 
specializes in air-ground-space-cyber integration in hostile, denied, and politically sensitive 
environments to achieve air, space, and cyber dominance. AFSPECWAR Airmen comprise the 
Guardian Angel, Tactical Air Control Party, and Special Tactics weapon systems. These Airmen 
are employed to: (1) gain global access; (2) provide precision strike; and (3) conduct personnel 
recovery across the spectrum of conflict and the multi-domain battlefield. 
1.1.  Global Access  . The establishment of access to permissive, contested, degraded, and 
operationally limited environments to project air, space, and cyber power to achieve joint 
force objectives. 
1.2.  Precision Strike  . The full kinetic and non-kinetic potential of ground, air, space, and 
cyber power to successfully find, fix, and bring effects against an objective or capability. 
1.3.  Personnel Recovery.  The sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to prepare for 
and execute the recovery and reintegration of isolated US military personnel, Department of 
Defense (DoD) civilian personnel, DoD contractor personnel, or other personnel and 
sensitive items as designated by the President or Secretary of Defense. The four functions of 
personnel recovery are: preparation, planning, execution, and adaptation. The five personnel 
recovery execution tasks are: report, locate, support, recover, and reintegrate. 
2.  Policy.  The Department of the Air Force will: 
2.1.  Organize, train, and equip AFSPECWAR forces to support DoD and US Government 
efforts to prepare for and conduct operations in contested, denied, operationally limited, and 
permissive environments under any environmental conditions. 
2.2.  Establish the AFSPECWAR enterprise, with participation from all applicable 
Department of the Air Force functions, to coordinate and synchronize this cross-functional 
mission and: 
2.2.1.  Develop strategy, policy, plans, concepts, and doctrine to execute the 
AFSPECWAR missions and ensure the Department of the Air Force implements related 
DoD strategy, policy, plans, concepts, and doctrine. 
2.2.2.  Manage and sustain the manpower, human performance, training, equipment, 
facility, and other resource requirements needed to prepare for, conduct, and sustain 
AFSPECWAR operations in coordination with the lead commands. 
2.2.3.  Identify gaps in AFSPECWAR operational capabilities and address shortfalls with 
appropriate Department of the Air Force offices and commands. 
2.2.4.  Ensure full spectrum readiness inspections assess the capability of forces to 
execute AFSPECWAR operations and activities. 
2.2.5.  Ensure AFSPECWAR research and development efforts are nested in, or 
coordinated with, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Defense Threat Reduction 
Agency, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Air Force Research Laboratory, 
and lead commands. 
2.2.6.  Coordinate AFSPECWAR activities and operations with combatant commands, 
sister services, and the Joint Staff. 
DAFPD10-35  5 JANUARY 2021 
3 
3.  Roles and Responsibilities. 
3.1.  Air Force Special Warfare Directorate (AF/A3S).  Executes AFSPECWAR 
management responsibilities outlined in Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-54. 
3.2.  Lead commands.  Lead commands for AFSPECWAR weapon systems are delineated 
as follows: 
3.2.1.  Air Combat Command is lead command for the Guardian Angel and Tactical Air 
Control Party weapon systems in accordance with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-
9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems. Air Combat 
Command will ensure the respective forces are organized, trained, and equipped to 
conduct personnel recovery, integrate joint fires, and conduct precision strike. 
3.2.2.  Air Force Special Operations Command is lead command for the special tactics 
weapon system in accordance with AFPD 10-9. Air Force Special Operations Command 
will ensure forces are organized, trained, and equipped to conduct global access, 
precision strike, and personnel recovery. 
3.2.3.  Air Force Materiel Command is the lead command for capabilities development, 
acquisition, and life-cycle management of AFSPECWAR equipment. Air Force Materiel 
Command will ensure interoperability, maximize standardization, and capitalize on 
opportunities for synergy across the AFSPECWAR enterprise. 
3.2.4.  Air Education & Training Command will execute responsibilities in accordance 
with Air Force Mission Directive 3, Air Education and Training Command. Air 
Education & Training Command will optimize AFSPECWAR recruiting, accessing, and 
institutional training to meet validated service requirements in compliance with Air Force 
Specialty-specific Career Field Education and Training Plans. Air Education & Training 
Command will develop courses that leverage commonalities of training across the 
AFSPECWAR mission areas. 
3.2.5.  Major Commands with assigned AFSPECWAR forces will organize, train, and 
equip sufficient AFSPECWAR Airmen to meet unit type code requirements to 
accomplish missions in support of combatant commander objectives. 
 
BARBARA M. BARRETT 
Secretary of the Air Force 
4 
DAFPD10-35  5 JANUARY 2021 
Attachment 1 
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION 
References 
HAFMD 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, 8 September 2015 
AFMD 3, Air Education and Training Command, 19 November 2019 
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March 
2007 
AFI 33-322, Records Management and Information Governance Program, 23 March 2020 
Prescribed Forms 
N/A 
Adopted Forms 
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 
Abbreviations and Acronyms 
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive 
AFSPECWAR—Air Force Special Warfare 
DoD—Department of Defense 
 
